This is an unfamiliar political
situation in just so many respects.
>> It's very difficult to look at the data
without having the data.
>> The less data that come out, the less of
a reason the Fed would have to deviate
from the dot plot.
>> Earning season is going to take on even
more importance if we have a lack of
government data.
>> Companies are going to operate through
fall. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> Let's get you to the weekend. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning for our audience
worldwide. Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now. Coming into payrolls Friday
without the payrolls division in
Washington leading to a delay in the
monthly jobs report as the government
shutdown enters day three with little
sign of ending. Investors are looking
through the noise sending equities back
to record highs. the S&P on a 5-day
winning streak
>> and the jobs report today is MIA. So
basically, we need to wait until the
government reopens. And Jonathan, right
now, what's happening in Washington DC,
even though they're going to put the
clean resolution back on the Senate
floor this morning for a fourth time at
some point today, it's not going to
pass. So lawmakers go home for the
weekend and we do this all again on
Monday, which means we are going to get
a delayed jobs report. And what is
starting to get people a little bit more
nervous is not so much this report, but
if this will goes on for another week or
two, what does that mean for the October
print we're supposed to get in November?
>> We've seen this movie before. We just
haven't watched this movie for quite a
while. You've got to go back to 2013,
16-day delay, ultimately a twoe delay to
the jobs report, 16-day shutdown. This
feels different, though. It feels like
the Federal Reserve is at some kind of
inflection point trying to decide
whether this slowdown in the jobs market
is the real deal. And that Federal
Reserve decision is only a little more
than 3 weeks away.
>> Yep. The Federal Reserve decision at the
end of the month, October 28th and 29th,
and then we're supposed to get CPI on
October 15th. And obviously, we would
have had jobs today. So, there's
potential that the Fed is going into the
next meeting blind when it comes to the
official government data, and they're
going to have to work off things like
ADP and other what other people would
call second tier data. But we already
know at this moment they have a bias as
you said a lot of times given what JPAL
has said and what they did at the last
month's meeting. They have a bias to
this weakening labor market.
>> The senator from Massachusetts has
things to say had things to say to CNN
saying this. Let's be clear. The jobs
data scheduled to come out this Friday
has undoubtedly been collected and the
president must release it. Do we know
that for a fact
>> that he must release it? We don't know
that for a fact because BLS already told
us what their plans are, which is they
will seize all economic data given the
shutdown. The president though could
essentially deem some people at BLS
essential and they can go in put the
internet on as Henrietta Trey says and
push the button release the jobs report.
That's not happening right now. I do
have an ask into the White House to know
whether or not the standard operating
procedure of Thursday evening the NEC
director would get the jobs report and
brief the president on it. Did that
happen or not? That is going to be a
question because a lot of people are
going to start really paying attention
to Trump's truth today if they think
that that happened.
>> There's a different kind of feel to the
first Friday of this month. Equity
futures on the S&P up by 0.3 following a
5-day winning streak. It could become
day six. Christopher of Strategus joins
us in just a moment with stocks at
all-time highs. Dan Ives of Wedbush on
the room to run for the AI rally and
Sarah House of Wells Fargo on gauging
the economy without a payroll sprint. We
begin this hour with stocks on their
longest winning streak since July. Chris
Ferona Strategus, a bad company, staying
bullish, writing, "The fourth quarter is
one of the few examples in our work
without any significant autocorrelation.
It just tends to be good from about
mid-occtober forward." Chris joins us
now for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Any reason is different this time?
>> I don't think so. Of course, kind of
we'll evaluate as the facts come in
here, but one of the unique things about
4Q is what preceded it almost has no
bearing on what happens. whether the
first nine months of the year were weak
or whether they were strong for Q just
as we write here uh tends to be pretty
good. What I think is more important
though is we enter this period with you
know trends generally pretty good about
65% of the S&Ps above the 200 day moving
average that's pretty good uh under the
surface leadership has generally been
procyclical. So, you know, as we've
worked our way through summer and
through September, I don't see much of a
change to the leadership fabric of the
market that will get us particularly
worried about what's uh in front of us
here into the final few months of the
year.
>> There was a great phrase in your recent
research, attitude follows price.
Attitude follows price. What did you
mean by that?
>> You know, one of the undefeated rules of
Wall Street is what you think is merely
a function of what has happened, right?
Flows follow performance, not the other
way around. in what we were really
talking about is how the tone on China's
begun to change here. Not because
there's been any grand change to the
macro, but because the stock prices have
gone up. We've been very bullish China
for 2 years. We thought ultimately this
would happen where the prices would um
ultimately force investors to capitulate
to the tape, right? The market goes up
long enough. I think the hang's up 90%
over the last two years. There comes a
point where you can no longer use the
quote uninvestable moniker that became
so popular. So we think it's part of
this sentiment process where uh
attitudes are ultimately shaped by the
price action.
>> What tone on China are you talking about
how investors feel about it or the
policy discussions?
>> Uh I think how investors for the you
know how many years now the term was
uninvestable. Uninvestable. I think
anytime you hear that phrase your
antenna should go up and start doing
some work and that was our approach uh
two years ago there. We began to see all
the momentum signals that we generally
see at the start of a big turn. And you
know here we are today. Uh Chinese
financials act pretty well. Chinese
discretionary acts very well. I think
interestingly Chinese materials have
started to turn up here. We've seen
copper break out. We've seen some of the
eurobasic resources turn. And you know
don't discount the fact that Nike
turning up here, LVMH turning up here. I
think all those are part are part of
this positive China tone.
>> So you think China is actually changing
within
>> uh I think the market uh wants to go up
as it has. Uh, I'll leave the longer
fundamental call up to someone.
>> Well, if LVH is doing well, maybe
consumers are going out and spending
more.
>> I think the tone on China was so
negative for so many years that even
incremental improvement is being
reflected in European luxury names, in
US apparel, in global basic resource
stocks. I think we're still relatively
early uh in that shift. And, you know,
watch this copper here. London copper
through 10,000 is a really big breakout.
>> This raises questions about where
leadership's going to come from. If
you're looking for a cyclical upturn
abroad, do you want to play it through
various proxies or do you just want to
stay at home and play the AI theme in
America? Lots of questions about
leadership this year. The leadership has
come from abroad. You've seen the
outperformance there, but the bulk of it
came in a first quarter. Mike Pile of
Black Rockck talked about this recently
and he said that since the middle of
April, you've seen US leadership
>> basically get back in a driving seat led
by AI, which is kind of odd that that
was a few days after April 2nd. How are
you thinking about leadership and where
it comes from now?
>> Well, let's make a couple observations
here. um you know the main European
indices peaked in March and then they
consolidated all spring all summer and
then this week they broke out again
right so this five sixmonth pause
resolved higher you saw new highs in
Euro stocks CAC is right there DAX is
doing it as well on the back of Rhy
Mattel and Seammen's energy and all
those big you know defense or energy
names uh when you look globally Cosby
strong Japan strong China strong so I
don't really have a lot of sympathy for
the idea that this is 10 stocks in the
US leading this whole thing. This has
been very very well participated. When
you look around the world, uh when you
take the domestic picture here, um yes,
the leadership has come from a select
group of AI or AI adjacent type names,
but the equate S&P is also at new highs
here. Russell 2000 made a new high a
week ago. So again, I don't have a lot
of sympathy for all the breath bears out
there. This has been broader than I
think people have given it credit for.
When you say Cosby in Korea, I think of
international trade. When I'm looking at
the move in copper, gold as well, I'm
not thinking disinflation. Quite the
opposite. That's where there's some
tension at the moment. Got a Federal
Reserve very preoccupied with a downturn
in the cycle and downside risk to
employment. And when you look through
the market and what it's telling you
right now, it's offering a very
different picture about the future. How
do we resolve that tension in the months
to come?
>> Well, I think it's funny that that that
we're all alarmed that the Fed uh is
blind without the payroll data. They're
not particularly good when they have the
data. So, I I'm not convinced it's that
big of a deal. Um, I've been of the view
that the Fed is likely cutting into a
reaceleration here. I think that's been
the message of the market. I think
that's been the message of the
cyclicals. I do think, uh, John, there's
probably some level on yields down where
I would have to question that, right? If
we're sitting here and 10ear yields are
sub 375 or some number, I think they I
think they bottomed about 384 uh on
April what fourth, fifth, 6th. um
anything under that you begin to wonder
hm is the market actually sending a
different message about the trajectory
of growth here but I generally think
we're okay when I look at the messages
globally it seems more consistent with
growth repicking up uh than
deteriorating from here
>> so even though we know the bias is to
cut you don't think they actually should
>> no I I want to be clear on on one thing
um you know it's funny we always joke in
our work you know what is the value of
the Fed or Fed speakers when you have
the two-year yield and the two-year
yield at 350 today would say we need
three cuts to get back to neutral. I
don't think bringing Fed funds from 4
and a/4 to 350 is some big overt easing.
I think it's a recognition that the
policy rate and the market rate are
pretty divorced here and we ought to get
those back in line before we do have a
problem uh down the line.
>> So, you're on Governor Myron's team.
>> I you know I I I think uh the the 0%
neutral rate is a bit aggressive. Uh I I
I think when you look at where the
market is set, somewhere between 3 to
three and a half I think is an
appropriate quote neutral rate.
>> That sounds like team Besson that you
believe the inversion of the very front
end of the curve does offer a signal and
that should drive the
>> Yeah. And our whole approach this year,
you know, we've kind of revised Marty's
why don't fight the Fed to don't fight
the Treasury. And I think the uh
market's been um been pretty clear in
listening to that message as well. Your
point in the jobs market is a point well
taken. Even we have the payrolls report.
Look how much it's been revised over the
last 12 months. Look how much that's
caught this Federal Reserve offside.
Just in the last two three months,
Chairman Pal has had to flip from one
story to another.
>> It almost feels like the payrolls report
was already cancelled in the figurative
form by the president and now it's
literally being cancelled because of the
government shutdown and that is why the
market is looking through it. But there
is there will become a problem if this
shutdown prolongs and then you have an
issue with data collection going forward
and it's going to put the BLS behind by
a number of weeks.
>> Chris, one final point please. Let's
wrap it all up. Conviction trade right
now. What do you really really like?
What are you super comfortable with that
you still may be getting a bit of push
back from clients which maybe makes you
more confident about where this is
going?
>> Yeah, I'm I'm really leaning into copper
here. Uh I think something has changed
in base metals over the last number of
weeks. I know you could point to the
Freeport mine closure uh in Indonesia,
but a lot of this improvement predates
that. So, something's happening there. I
think it demands our attention,
>> Chris. It's got our attention after
speaking to you. Thank you, sir.
Appreciate it. Thank you, Chris
Strategus. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, we're in
the third day of a government shutdown.
The Senate is expected to hold another
vote today on a stop gas spending bill
to reopen the government into mid-
November. Democrats are holding firm on
demands to extend healthcare subsidies.
President Trump is threatening to slash
jobs at what he calls Democrat agencies
that don't align with his agenda.
Applied materials trading lower in the
pre-market. The largest US maker of
machinery used to manufacture
semiconductors says an expansion of
rules that restrict the export of its
products to China will take another
chunk out of its revenue. The company
expects it will have $600 million in
lost revenue in fiscal 2026, which runs
through next October.
A large fire has broken out at a Chevron
refinery in Los Angeles County.
Firefighters responded after multiple
reports of an explosion at the Elsaundo
operation south of the Los Angeles
airport. According to the company's
website, the refinery built in 1911
supplies 20% of all motor vehicle fuels
and 40% of the jet fuel consumed in
Southern California. That is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
about 30 minutes time. An unimpressed
AMH. Where's the Yankees? Where's the
story?
>> Where's the Where's the sports update?
>> The team. I walked in today with all my
Yankees gear and I said, "Make sure it's
in every brief." I think, you know, we
have some haters in the control room.
That's what this comes down to.
>> We do.
>> Okay. Who do they support?
>> A lot. A lot. They know who they
support. Why do you think Lisa is off
today?
>> Oh, right. This is like a day of rest
after what happened with the baseball.
>> Yeah.
>> Wasn't aware of that. Haters in the
control room. Brutal. Up next on the
program, a data delay.
>> Probably this report is not coming out.
The less data that come out, the less of
a reason the Fed would have to to
deviate from the dot plot.
>> We'll get into that in just a moment. Ed
Mills of Raymond James joins us next
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
It is payrolls Friday without the
payrolls if you want the estimates.
Anyway, the median in our survey was
53K. The range was pretty wide. This is
a guessing game. The low was -20. The
high was 109. The 3-month average, huge
step down from the start of the year
when we were looking at 200K. The
3-month average now around 29,000. The
equity market doesn't really care. It's
higher by 0.3% on the S&P following a
5-day win streak, the longest since late
July. Can we make it day six on the
NASDAQ higher by 0.3%. The S&P, the
Nasdaq, the Russell, all up on the week.
Two-year bond yields down on the week.
Check out this in the bond market.
Two-year at the moment trading at around
355. Yields higher on the session by
around a basis point on 10s up by not
even a basis point around 4.1%. The data
so far this week has not been great.
Weaker than expected data across the
board. The ADP the worsens 23 is
manufacturing soft the quits rate I
think the lows of the year. Consumer
confidence 5 month low. It's not been a
great picture. Even without the payroll
report that picture has not been
fantastic. The picture hasn't been
fantastic. Which is why the market is
basically saying we already the Fed
already knew that the data was coming in
weaker than expected, especially off of
the numerous labor reports we had over
the summer, which is why they're looking
through this and saying, does the Fed
actually need the jobs data in order to
continue on this cutting cycle by the
end of the month? And then you brought
up a great point, Jonathan. Before the
data was literally cancelled today
because of the government shutdown, it
was figuratively canled by this
administration that cast a ton of doubt
on it. And then the market has been
talking about the fact that they do want
crisper, more accurate data and they
want a revised BLS to take this on hand
to try to get more up to speed data and
then you don't see all these revisions.
>> It's the main focus for us this morning
and surveillance this morning a data
delay.
>> Probably this report is not coming out
and it's certainly uh why we think the
BLS said that that all data collection
will cease. The less data that come out
the less of a reason the Fed would have
to to deviate from the dot plot. meaning
the more likely it is that they will cut
exactly 25 basis points in October. Hard
to really say that they won't go ahead
and and carry out what they had signaled
uh in midepptember under that situation.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
release of key economic data in jeopardy
as the US government shutdown drags into
its third day. Bloom's Mike McKe
tracking the story closely. He joins us
now. Good morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. I think the market is
telling us that if we could only have
payrolls Friday, if we could only have
one of those things, we'd rather have
Friday than payrolls. But uh it looks
like we're going to have to wait a while
to get payrolls anyway. And the big
question as we go forward now is are we
going to get the CPI on September uh
October 15th because that's going to be
key to the Fed. We have seen some
evidence of strength in the economy in
terms of retail sales and overall
spending. And if the inflation rate is
not going down or if it should tick up,
then it makes it harder for the Fed to
at least do anything uh in December.
They might, as Emory was saying, go
ahead and cut in uh October because the
uh the the Fed said they would. Uh but
at this point, um we don't know where we
are flying blind in a cloud as was said.
Uh so we're we're relying on alternate
data. The alternate data don't look as
bad uh except for ADP as people think.
The Ravilio people who are had this new
report out say we got 60,000 jobs during
the month. The Chicago Fed estimates
unemployment at 4.3%. The Atlanta Fed
wages at 4.1% year-over-year. So that
would be considered a we don't really
need to think about cutting rates report
if that's what we got. We just have to
wait and see if we can get it. Uh and
the other big thing that we have to
watch for is if this is not settled by
three weeks into the month, then the
unemployment report and the CPI report
for October are threatened because they
won't be able to collect the data.
>> There are consequences. Mike McKe, thank
you, sir. Stay close. Mike McKe's going
to be a key feature of this program this
morning, walking you through where to
look and get additional data to get a
read on what's happening in this
economy. Ed Mills of Raymond James joins
us now for more. Ed, we're in day three.
Probably going to go into day four,
five, six. I just wonder how long do you
think this is going to go on for?
>> Yeah, John, I think most people here in
DC put the over under about two weeks
in, kind of miss a first paycheck and
pressure builds. Um, the outer bound
people are willing to say is once we get
towards the end of the month when rent
and mortgages and kind of all the bills
are due. Uh, but the traditional
playbook is not kind of a sign to this
uh uh shutdown. So really the kind of
honest answer is no one knows exactly
how long this is going to last. There is
an off-ramp to kind of uh reopen this
government. It is a CR to open the
government, but is negotiations enough
or do Democrats actually need a deal uh
to reopen this government on the ACA
subsidies and other healthcare programs?
That's the big question for me.
>> Ed, this might be a bit granular, but do
you think the BLS gave the NEC the jobs
report last night as they normally do?
standard operating procedure and that
the president actually knows what the
report is.
>> Yeah, I Amry, I got a lot of questions
about that uh at Raymond James because
one of the conspiracy theories out there
was if this job data was not very good,
why release it? And if it was actually
good, uh would President Trump say,
"Hey, you know, maybe we should kind of
get this out." You do have to remember
that there were uh a lot of federal
employees that were set to uh lose their
jobs on October 1st regardless of the
government shutdown. Those who took out
uh the early out the musk out um and so
to the extent that this might be a
weaker jobs report than what they'd like
to show um you know certainly convenient
not to have this released to uh this
jobs Friday. Well, we'll be paying close
attention to any truths he has today
regarding the non-report. We're not
expecting anymore. The White House
yesterday,
>> I've gotten that in the past.
>> Yeah. The White House yesterday, the
president was talking about how he had
this meeting with Russ Vaude. What's
come of it? Are they going to make these
layoffs permanent?
I
>> I think they're going to attempt to do
that. Uh, Amory, I think that this is
um, you know, kind of the playbook that
I've seen from President Trump time and
time again. Uh, President Trump doesn't
spend a lot of time on the defensive. uh
he always wants to go on the offensive.
He wants to kind of increase the heat,
increase the pressure, increase the cost
on congressional Democrats uh for them
not providing the votes to pass that
clean CR. Um, I do think that actually
might extend out the uh uh overall
government shutdown because I think once
you start permanently attempting to fire
people, uh, Democrats put that on their
kind of number one list in terms of what
it takes to turn this government back
on, uh, this is certainly something that
the administration has wanted to do. Uh
so so far the unions are standing with
Democrats and saying uh this is just a
kind of an inevitable step and so if we
can pull this forward and maybe get a
protection in a restarting of this
government uh they're open to that but
yeah they're absolutely moving forward
with these firings and they're going to
see how far the courts allow them to go.
>> Where are the firings going to come
from?
>> Well at first it seems like from
independent agencies but I think it is
going to be the agencies that project
2025 identified. uh they are saying that
if you do not have a you know explicit
appropriation uh then that is going to
be the reason why the president has
discretion not to uh keep that. Uh so
looking at kind of department of energy
looking at uh department of you know
education uh disfavored agencies out
there are probably going to see the dis
you know proportionate number and then
this fight about independent agencies uh
what is their constitutional role
because they're in this kind of quasi
executive branch non-executive branch
role. They certainly sought to exert
more power over there by firing a number
of heads of executive agencies that were
appointed by President Biden, approved
by the Senate, but were not the
preferred pick anymore of President
Trump. Uh so that push of executive
power is going to be once again tested.
>> Just 3 days in, who at the moment do you
see the public blaming for the shutdown?
>> Yeah, so Emory, all of the polls show so
far uh Republicans getting a
disproportionate amount of the blame.
Um, one thing that we're looking at is a
lot of the polling says, uh, do you
blame Democrats or President Trump and
congressional Republicans? Uh, is it the
kind of fact that they add President
Trump to this that is skewing this? But
it is really important. I'm glad you
asked about polling because it is
probably polling that will determine who
kind of uh blinks first. Uh, back in
2018, there were polls out that showed
90% of the American people were blaming
Republicans. That turned the government
back on. uh if Democrats continue to get
an advantage in polling, uh they are
going to continue to push. If that
switches around, that's where the
pressure builds. That's where they think
that they might have to capitulate. And
they will also be looking at these
November elections, guminatorial,
statewide elections in New Jersey,
Virginia, elsewhere as a kind of warning
sign if they are getting blamed. Those
are kind of guminatorial seats they
absolutely want to keep and pick up. uh
if they feel as if that's at risk I
think that also potentially you know
changes the calculus
>> and as you know well we all know unlike
us people have lives I wonder how many
people are actually even aware the
government's shut down when do they
start to realize that when does it get
real for the country
>> yeah so u we have seen it get real for
the country when um you know TSA agents
who are kind of government employees uh
stop showing up to work or kind of call
in sick uh because they're not getting
paid um if lines kind of get longer
people get frustrated, but that's still
just a segment of the population. Um, I
think that they will see stories about
military personnel not getting uh their
paycheck. They put their lives on the
line for the country if they're not able
to pay their rent, if they're not able
to pay their mortgage, if they're not
able to kind of put food on the table.
Uh, those type of stories kind of break
through. But the reality is is in a
partial government shutdown, essential
employees still go to work and so the
essential services of the US government
continue to work. Um, so for the vast
majority of Americans, uh, a government
shutdown is just a headline coming out
of DC.
>> Ed, thank you, sir. Appreciate the
perspective. Ed Mills, there of Raymond
James, you talked about the significance
of the airports. Also, just the idea,
the idea of standing behind something
that means that military personnel
aren't being paid. That should make
everyone uncomfortable in Washington.
>> Yeah. And the next pay date for them is
October 15th. And certainly you're going
to hear from they're going to hear from
their constituents and military
personnel, people that say, "No, wrap
this up. These people need to get paid."
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equity futures this morning
positive by 0.3. Coming up, we'll catch
up with Dan Ies of Wedbush as Tesla post
record quarterly sales.
[Music]
5day winning run on the S&P 500 up every
single day this week and some. The
longest winning run going back to late
July. We add some weight to the rally
this morning up by 0.25% on the S&P on
the Nasdaq 100, higher by 0.3 on the
week so far. We're positive on the S&P,
the Nasdaq and the Russell, too. In the
bond market, two-year bond yields lower
on the week by around 10 basis points,
up this morning by a single basis point.
We're back up to, let's call it 355. The
data we have seen so far this week has
been weaker than expected, particularly
from ADP. And ISM manufacturing wasn't
tremendous. Later on this morning, we
will get some data. Won't be payrolls in
two hours time. We're not expecting
that, but we are expecting ISM services.
That's a key data point going into the
weekend. Going into the weekend, let's
sit on this. Switch up the board. Gold.
Gold is up for the seventh consecutive
week, the longest run since February.
It's higher again this morning by 0.2%.
All these estimates, 4K, 4K, 4K sounded
mental 12 months ago, we're very close
to 4K already.
>> Yeah. Then the next estimate of course
is going to be 5K. I think giving gold a
little bit of extra oomph this week is
of course the government shutdown. But
what we've seen from gold consistenc
consistently of more than 40% this year
is the fact that risk on by gold, risk
off by gold. It is this perfect hedge in
this environment and there's a lot of
geopolitical factors as well that is
shaping into why gold is perfect right
now for this environment cuz central
banks are buying it
>> this morning we're buying gold 3863 very
close to 3864 3 hours away from the
opening bounce some single names for you
some morning movers here's Danny
Burgerer hey Danny
>> hey John this morning we are not buying
applied materials shares are down this
morning after filing from the company
yesterday it makes equipment that makes
chips and says that the US commerce
department has expanded their
restrictions of what can be sold to
China. They said the hit for them for
fiscal 2026, which runs through next
October, would be $600 million. So
shares down 2.5%. Elsewhere, Rumble,
this is an online video sharing platform
signed a deal with the AI company
Perplexity. They say that this is going
to help uh basically serve better videos
to its users and at the same time help
content creators reach exactly the
audience that they wanted. So, you sign
an AI pact or you just talk about AI in
this environment and there you go.
Shares are up 14%. Also looking at a
rebound in Tesla shares this morning.
They fell 5% yesterday. We haven't quite
made that up, but they fell 5% after
record orders, record new vehicle sales
for them, but it was a sugar rush. At
least that was the consensus that there
had been that expiring $7,500 tax credit
for EV. So, consumers rushed in to buy
before that. So shares fell, but they're
up about 1 and a3% this morning. John,
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. We'll catch up with Dan out
of Wedbush as well in a few minutes
time. Let's keep up to speed on some of
our top stories on our radar this
morning. The crucial September payrolls
report expected to be delayed by the
ongoing government shutdown. Gridlock on
Capitol Hill threatening collection of
data for future reports including CPI
and PPI due later this month. Elsewhere,
the President Donald Trump went on aid
package for US farmers of up to $14
billion. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the money is expected to come
from tariff revenue as Trump plans to
urge Chinese leader Xi Jinping to
increase purchases of US soybeans. And
finally, research firm Tech Insights
finding Huawei's advanced ascend AI
chips are still relying on foreign tech.
Despite China's push for domestic
production, components from giants like
TSMC and Samsung were found in multiple
samples of Huawei's chips.
>> I think there's two points to take from
this. One is that China is still reliant
on US technology, foreign firms
technology. They are not doing this all
homegrown as they want to do. Second
point, Huawei has been on the entity
list since Trump's first administration.
So some of this tech that should it be
getting to Huawei is potentially getting
to Huawei. And I think this is going to
be a big concern for Washington,
especially as they're in the middle of
these trade negotiations with China and
maybe there's another chip they can
play. So positions leveraging this is
how we're positioning going into these
talks. You've got the Chinese ultimately
dependent on foreign tech. Got that.
You've got US farmers dependent on
Chinese purchases. They're not getting
that right now. Is that going to be the
deal in a month's time? What kind of
deal is that? Chips for soybeans.
>> Yeah, that's going to potentially
unnerve some of the Chinese hawks in the
administration. But right now, this is
going to be politically uncomfortable
for this administration. And by the way,
the Wall Street Journal is talking about
1014 billion for a bailout. It was $23
billion that was spent for the farmers
in Trump 1.0. And they've been talking
about this for months because they knew
this was going to bite. They're going to
have to do something for the farmers
because these are red states. These are
supporters. And right now, China is not
buying cargos. Potentially, we will get
some purchasing at the end of the month
when the president sits down with Xi
Jinping. But the key question, as you're
asking, is what for? What is the bar?
Where is the bar going to be? Is it
going to be for high advanced technology
chips?
>> There's a lot of crossover in all these
stories at the moment. Tracking
Argentina as well. I believe there's a
meeting today taking place. Argentina is
filling in the gaps. China needs
soybeans is getting it from Brazil. Been
leaning heavily on Brazil. Filling in
the gaps coming from Argentina and
Argentina wants the help of the US
government.
>> Exactly. And this is why you're seeing
these two heads butt in terms of
Secretary Brooke Rollins and Secretary
Scott Bessant. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besset. was with him when he met with
MLE in April. They are talking about
trying to give Argentina this swap line
to make sure that they can help
Argentina when you have a run on their
uh currency and a run on their stocks.
Meanwhile, Argentina just basically
opened up the floodgates and sending
their soybeans to China. They're filling
some of the gap that China has right now
because China's not buying from the
United States. So, this is going to be
another politically uncomfortable moment
for this administration. Do you want to
make America great again or do you want
to make Argentina great again?
>> Look out for those talks taking place a
little bit later between Argentina and
the Treasury. Let's get to Tesla. I
promised you an update. Shares
recovering this morning, higher by a
little more than 1% following
yesterday's slide, which followed the
company reporting record third quarter
deliveries. Dan eyes of Wentbush
maintaining his outperform rating and
writing the following. With Mus now
driving Tesla into its next stage of
growth as wartime CEO, we estimate the
AI and autonomous opportunity is worth
at least1 trillion dollars alone. Dan
joins us now for more. Dan, welcome.
Let's just start with yesterday's move,
then we'll get to the future and all
that great stuff. How much of that story
with the deliveries was just a massive
pull forward in demand?
>> Well, I I think probably about 30% of it
was maybe a pull forward, you know,
relative to the incremental beat. But
look, the demand story is stabilizing.
And now I think you're starting to see
that turnaround happen. But as we've
talked about, that's just the appetizer.
The main event, it's the AI revolution
coming to Tesla with the autonomous and
then the robotics piece. I mean, I think
this is going to be a $3 trillion market
cap. That's why I think $600 is almost a
base case for where we see it.
>> So Dan, you understand the tension well.
I feel like we've covered this together
a million times, but it's the tension
between the near-term fundamentals and
the long-term hope and dreams. The
fundamentals at the moment, when you say
the demand story stabilizing,
stabilizing demand is not the kind of
story we'd associate with a multiple
like the one on Tesla right now. Now,
Dan, how are we going to resolve those
issues? Do we just keep the faith in the
multiple and the stock and the hopes and
dreams or at some point do we have to to
reconcile these issues?
>> Yeah, it's a great point. Look, are you
going to have 10 million Teslas, you
know, on the road? You when you think
about since the beginning, the
autonomous value as you start to see
robo taxis deploy 30 35 cities, you see
full self-driving get to 40 50% of the
actual Teslas out there. That's the game
changer because ultimately I think
they're going to own 80 90% of the
autonomous world over the coming years
as we get to true what I use as level
four. Look, I think that's the reality.
I think investors are looking autonomous
is truly what I view as really, you
know, the Goldilock scenario for Tesla
because AI, physical AI, there's two
great physical phenomenal AI plays out
there. It's Nvidia and it's Tesla. When
it comes to physical AI,
>> when it comes to EVs for Tesla, one of
the biggest competitors is BYD, which is
absolutely crushing them in Europe. When
it comes to autonomous, who is going to
be their biggest competitor? Is it
coming from China?
>> Look, I think it comes from China
ultimately, you know, when you think
about all the technology, you know,
innovations that we've seen there, but
globally, no one has the scale and scope
of Tesla. Not
>> that's why, you know,
>> look, I think BYD is obviously going to
be the main competition. But when I
think about scale and scope globally,
especially not just in the US, but what
we see around the world, I think Tesla
continues to win that battle. But but we
don't also we don't view this as one
where there's just one winner. And I
think when you think about autonomous
and you think about this next wave of
AI, you know, from the chips to the
software to the ripple effect, it speaks
to our view like this AI revolution.
We're still in the second inning of a
nine inning game and ultimately the
Yankees end up winning that game.
>> Don't encourage it, Dan. We'll get to
that later. Dan, let's say you're right.
Let's find some common ground. The
autonomous opportunity is massive.
Driverless vehicles, all of that stuff.
I think a lot of people can get on board
with that.
>> But I want to understand why you think
the Tesla path, that road is the road to
success. So, they're using cameras.
Whimo's using LAR. What kind of
technology do you ultimately think wins
out?
Look, I think it's ultimately Tesla from
a from a data perspective. When you look
at the AI engineers and you look at all
the improvements that they're going to
make on these next, you know,
>> let's just get just give me a second.
What data are you looking at? Because I
can go off the the weekly trips that
Whimo is doing at the moment and that
kind of data looks pretty decent. What
are you stacking that up against?
>> I look at is Whimo. They're $200,000
cars in essentially five cities. the
scale and scope that Tesla has given the
millions and millions of miles driven
and the 10 million vehicles in the road
and everything that they're doing in
Musk as being wartime CEO. That's why I
think we sit here 6 months from now the
breakthroughs will happen and ultimately
when it comes to scale especially when
you look at robo taxi and cyber caps no
one's going to be able to match Tesla. I
I view that as just basically almost
fact as it plays out. So Dan, when it
comes to deliveries, do they not even
matter anymore because everyone's so
focused on what's going to happen in the
future?
>> Look, they matter in terms of just we'll
call it like a a signal from a
stabilization perspective, especially
after what we've seen over the last 69
months. But I think I think from an
investor perspective, it's all about
like to what pheroh just like give me
marks on autonomous. Show me the
technology innovations on the AI story.
Show me that we're going to get to full
scale and optimist. Show me in November
the shareholder me that they're going to
have a big piece of XAI. I mean that's
why you see Musk it's a different mode
now. It's that wartime CEO that we're
seeing. Those are the marks and that's
how we're going to be looking at 600,
700 and ultimately, you know, a stock I
think 3 trillion.
>> That's a lot to play for for the road
ahead. Dan, before we leave you, the
baseball you want to finish there.
Yankees win getting it done. Who do you
think gets this all done? World Series
later this year.
>> Look, I mean, I I think Yankees
obviously have a great shot to to go. I
think they're going to surprise many out
there. I I think this could be their
year. And look, Amory there obviously is
a good luck charm. So, we got to see how
it all plays out.
>> Have we given up on Penn State, Dan? Are
we done with that now?
>> Oh, no. Look, I'm here in Pasadena,
UCLA, the bounceback starts. That's
another one. Penn State Yankees at the
at the end they'll be they'll be holding
that trophy.
>> We'll see. Dan, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Dan Ice of Wet Bush.
>> We're set to advance. We have the uh
game coming up this Saturday with the
Blue Jays. It's going to be challenging,
but I agree with Dan. I mean, this
picture yesterday, this 24 year old, who
I just found out is actually from
Boston, this kid Cam was unbelievable.
And it's like he came out of nowhere at
the perfect time.
>> Taken down a Red Sox. That's your latest
sports segment with a bit of Tesla
sprinkled in between. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloombo brief. Here's Vonnie
Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. A British citizen
of Syrian descent was named by police as
the attacker on a Manchester synagogue
during Yong Kapoor services. Two people
were killed, one by an accidental police
bullet. Three others were injured. UK
Prime Minister Kier Starmer warned
against rising hatred and anti-semitism,
calling the killings a terrorist attack
that attacked Jews because they are
Jews.
Suspensions of flights at Germany's
Munich airport are now easing. Several
drone sightings prompted diversions of
more than 30 flights from the country's
second largest hub. This comes as
several drone incidents across Europe
temporarily forced closures and
large-scale diversions at major hubs.
And you've been saying it, the MLB wild
card round finished up last night with
the New York Yankees shutting out their
rival Boston Red Sox 4 to zero. Yankees
rookie starter Cam Schlitler struck out
12 batters and got some key help from
his defense to send New York to the
division series. Elsewhere, the Chicago
Cubs and Detroit Tigers both won their
game three matchups to advance to the
next round which starts Saturday. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Another update on on the
Yankees. We're done. Now,
>> there's another play that everyone needs
to watch when the third baseman ran to
catch a foul ball and tumble literally
somersaulted into the Red Sox bullpen.
You have to watch it. It's incredible.
>> I apologize to our friends in Boston
this morning. Good morning to you. Up
next on the program, payrolls on pause.
We have this shutdown dynamics right now
and it's very difficult to look at the
data uh without having the data.
>> Some of the other private sources of
data will be more important with some of
the government data delay. I I don't
think that the Fed is going to just you
know totally go on pause.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Sarah House
of Wells Fargo live from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The Federal Reserve is worried about
growth. Markets focused on something
else. This came from Torson earlier this
week from Apollo. The US economy remains
remarkably resilient. Upside risk to
inflation are growing, particularly if
the Fed continues to cut interest rates.
And based on recent commentary, they
will. And there seems to be a difference
between what the Federal Reserve is
concerned about downside risk to
employment and what this market is
focused on. This came from Ian Lingham
of Beimo. Thanks Mike McKe for sending
this over. He basically asked his
readers, "Are you more concerned about
the Fed missing on the inflation or
employment side of its dual mandate in
the near term? A inflation 63% of
respondents. B employment 37% of
respondents. That's the divide. And it's
obvious what the Fed's bias is right now
and the market gets it
>> right. The Fed's bias right now is to
the jobs report, not what these
individuals are concerned about in this
survey, which is inflation, which by the
way, how many years has it been now?
They've been continuously missing on
their inflation target.
>> Losing counts.
>> Yes. And at the same time, we could have
inflation at 3% and this Fed potentially
could still want to have this bias to
cutting cuz their concern was going to
the labor market. At some point, you
have to think about what Governor
Myron's been talking about and who what
Muhammad Alan's been talking about for
years. Maybe you just need to capitulate
and accept you're not getting back to 2%
and you're going to have to target a
range between 2 to 3%.
>> Will they deviate from the dot plot?
Namora thinks they ultimately won't.
We'll get into that story in just a
moment. If you're just joining us and
want some price action is still positive
up by 0.2% on the S&P following 5 days
of gains on the NASDAQ up by 0.24 on the
small caps. the Russell this morning
higher by 0.37 and the surface this
morning it's payros on pause
>> we have this shutdown dynamics right now
and it's very difficult to look at the
data uh without having the data
>> I think it's going to be weeks not days
this means we're flying by blind in a
highly foggy environment
>> some of the other private sources of
data will be more important with some of
the government data delay I I don't
think that the Fed is going to just you
know totally go on pause
>> so here's the latest this morning
investors digesting alternative economic
data suggesting the labor market stalled
in September with the payrolls report
delayed by the government shutdown.
Joining us now to discuss is Sarah House
of Wells Fargo. Sarah, welcome to the
program. Namora thinks that given the
data delay, this Fed ultimately won't
deviate from the dot plot. Would you
agree with that?
>> I think that's generally right, but we
still could get this payroll report
before their next meeting on October
29th. But I think absent this most
familiar and and persuasive piece of
labor market data and potentially
inflation data as well, it's hard to
really see Fed officials adjusting their
their prior view. So I do think that
keeps them on track for another cut here
in October.
>> Sarah, I'd rather have the jobs report
than not have one. You I imagine would
agree, but ultimately over the last few
months, the last few years, it hasn't
exactly been reliable, has it? How
useful is that jobs report to this
Federal Reserve? Yeah, I think overall
it's still a very informative picture of
of the jobs market. So, we've obviously
had some payroll issue with payrolls
being pretty consistently overstated,
but you still have a lot of information
coming from the household survey, some
of the ratios there that are
particularly helpful. But at least when
it comes to the labor market, we still
have a lot of alternative data, some of
which has been around for a year. So,
we're still able to fill in some of the
picture. I think the issue right now is
that some of those secondary reports,
they're not all painting a consistent
picture. So, we're not getting
necessarily a clear signal from them.
So, it's of limited help right now, I
think, to the Federal Reserve.
>> What are you relying on mostly when it
comes to the second tier reports?
>> Yeah. So, I think there's a number of
indicators that we've been using for
years. We understand how this works with
the overall jobs market. So, one is what
we're seeing in terms of the NFIB hiring
plan. So that's one of the bright spots
we're seeing in the jobs market right
now. So we saw that come out for
September yesterday. That's been up for
four straight months, highest since
January. And then the other part that we
use a lot are are what's happening with
the PMIs. So both the ISM employment
components, but also the regional Fed
ones. And there the story isn't as
sanguin. So if you look at the regional
Fed services PMIs on average, those hit
their second lowest reading of the year
in September. So pointing to that mixed
messages where we're not seeing an
obvious firming but also uh not
necessarily clear clear downtrend when
we look across the the major data points
right now.
>> When does this start to become very
uncomfortable for you if we have a
prolonged shutdown and what if we don't
get the October print as well?
>> Yeah. So I think where probably it gets
a little hairier is if you see that
shutdown last probably about two maybe
even three weeks because then again
you're probably not going to see that
before the the Fed the next Fed meeting.
I think also that starts to potentially
influence the October data. So we saw in
the 2013 shutdown that the from the
employment perspective response rates
were were in their normal ranges. So the
BLS was able to kind of make up that
period. But where it was a bigger
problem was in the inflation picture. So
back in October 2013, the BLS only had
about 75% of the observations. This is
of course coming at a time when they're
already having to impute more data, cut
coverage in in some cities. And so I
think the the bigger concern in a
prolonged shutdown is the the quality of
that inflation data that we get in
October at what still is, of course, you
know, a very tricky time for uh for the
Fed in its inflation fight.
>> Could a very prolonged shutdown put the
Fed on hold at any point?
I um it would have to I think be pretty
prolonged. So again, I think for now it
keeps Fed officials in really what
they're in their prior expectations path
and we saw that the majority of
officials were still looking for two
more cuts before the end of the year. If
you think about who's voting this year,
I think that the bias is is even more so
towards that two those two cuts. So, I
think uh it's it's really hard to see
that them altering that path in in terms
of forcing them to to actually be on on
hold at this point, but uh this is this
has been a pretty uh strange year in
terms of of what's happening in in the
policy sphere. So, we'll we'll see what
happens.
>> Sarah, we will get some data. We'll get
ISM services. Early this week, we had
ISM manufacturing. How instructive have
those indicators been, particularly at a
time when this market is positioning for
a pick up in economic activity?
Yeah. So, less so in in the past few
years than I think they were prior to
the pandemic, but still a decent
barometer on on overall activity. I
think we have to be a little bit careful
with what's happening with some of the
supplier delivery components of of that
where um once again with some of the
tariffs, you're still getting some some
gummed up supply chain issues. So,
longer delivery times not necessarily a
positive sign for activity there. But
with the services number today, I think
we'll be looking closely at does the pop
that we saw in new orders hold or do we
get some some give back the way that
some of the regional Fed PMIs are are
indicating that maybe that that momentum
isn't turning around quite as much as as
what was previously indicated.
>> Sarah, just before you go, in the
commercial break, I was reading a note
from Jordan Rochester of Missouo and in
it he was reflecting on the pandemic and
as you mentioned a pandemic, I think
it's worthy of conversation. In that
time, we got really used to looking at
alternative data. I remember people
coming on and talking about open table
data looking for that high frequency
pulse of what was happening in real
time. How useful was it then and do we
return to that now?
>> So I think it was pretty useful then
just to help us gauge the magnitude of
changes in some of the the more
traditional data right now where we've
seen activity kind of get to uh at least
a more normal pace. I think it's it's a
little bit less informative. And then
the issue there is a lot of that
alternative data it doesn't have a long
time series and so it doesn't
necessarily help as much in terms of
turning points in the economy or at
least potential turning points which we
could be at now. So it's it's helpful
but I don't necessarily think it's a
panacea for missing this this
long-standing government data.
>> Hey Sarah, appreciate it. Sarah House of
Wells Fargo. We'll do our best to fill
in the gaps as we wait for a payroll
report and we don't have a clue when
that payrolls report is coming out.
>> We don't know because the government is
still shut down until they open it up.
then will know whether or not they're
going to release it in two or three days
cuz remember this payrolls report is
pretty much ready to go. They need to
get the press release together and then
they go and ship it out. I believe in
2013 when they reopened the payrolls
report came out 3 days later that after
the shutdown. So this we will get it
soon but they have to reopen and this is
the question if this is prolonged okay
we're not going to get September and
then October's data is going to be a lot
rougher to collect and that's going to
be delayed. We are in day three and the
jobs report is most likely delayed.
Equity futures positive by 0.2%. Looking
through the noise down in Washington DC.
Up next we'll catch up with Pria Misra
of JP Morgan, Janette Lowe of Strategus,
Francis Donald of RBC, Mike Collins of
Pentium Fixed Income from New York City.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is just around the corner.
[Music]
positioning today, despite the runup in
the market, is a source of upside.
Nothing really phases these markets.
>> AI has been fueling this rally.
>> We've seen a considerable broadening of
the rally the remainder of this year and
into the first half of next year. We
feel pretty good about the market
conditions. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores are shaping up as
follows. Equity futures on the S&P 500
firmer by 210 of 1% following and
building on a 5-day winning streak on
the S&P 500. It looks like day six and
today it won't be dependent on what
happens at 8:30 Eastern time because we
are not getting payrolls in the bond
market. 2year, 10ear, 30-year bond yield
shaping up as follows. Your 2-year just
about unchanged at 35450 with yields
down on the week. The data we have had
so far this week has not been great. The
data we will get looks like this. ISM
services coming later on this morning is
really the main event without payrolls.
We'll all be looking to ISM.
>> Absolutely. And you mentioned Jordan
Rochester and he was talking about how
we're basically entering a data desert
and how long that lasts is going to be
how long the government shutdown lasts.
And today we might get some clues. We're
going to hear from Speaker Johnson.
We're going to hear from Majority Leader
Boon. They're going to have another vote
on the clean CR. It's not passing. But
potentially does a pressure start to
build. Remember, people are going to be
furoughed. They're not going to get
paid. You have four Democratic senators
sitting in Maryland and Virginia where a
lot of these people live and work and
that work for the US government and
potentially those are going to be the
individuals start to put pressure on
Chuck Schumer to start negotiating and
wrap it up.
>> So Ed Mills of Raymond James was great a
little bit earlier on this morning. We
talked about when America starts to feel
this. At the moment it's just a headline
and for a lot of people it's a headline
they're not paying any attention to. He
said it gets real when we reach two
points. One, when the military aren't
being paid, because that is a very
uncomfortable thing to stand behind. And
two, when the airports start getting
messy and busy and your everyday
traveler starts to see it for real.
>> So, middle of October, a military is
supposed to get paid. Everyone in
America is going to want to see men and
women of service getting their
paychecks. That's one. He's absolutely
right. And that's why people think this
can only last 2 weeks, right? Cuz then
that would be crazy. Second, there is
historical evidence that when people
start to get annoyed at the airport,
when you have the FAA coming out and
saying, "We're going to have basically
limit air traffic into things like
LaGuardia and Orlando, then we need to
wrap it up." On January 25th, 2019, this
is what happened. And guess what
happened that same exact day? Trump
agreed to a temporary government funding
measure. Kromage travelers, people take
to Twitter. They are angry. Open the
government. Why are you doing this to
us? That's when it starts to hit.
>> Are we going to see a repeat of that? At
the moment, the market's looking right
through the noise. Equity futures on the
S&P positive by 210 of 1%. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Prima
Misra of JP Morgan with investors
extending a record rally. Janette Low of
Strategus as the Senate holds another
shutdown vote and Francis Donald of RBC
seeing data delays leading to a Fed
pause. We begin this hour with stocks
hitting fresh highs unfaced by
Washington's funding impass. Pria Misra
JP Morgan writing, "The markets seem to
be ignoring the shutdown for now, but if
we get permanent government layoffs,
that can have a bigger impact." Pria
joins us now for more. Pria, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> I've asked this question about 10
different ways this week. Is it
different this time? Do you think it
might be?
>> It might be. There are some differences.
Now, we know historically shutdowns have
not mattered. What's different this
time? The Congress has passed not a
single appropriation bill. So, this is a
full shutdown. And we have the president
talking about permanent layoffs which is
I mean remember this was the doge year.
So, you know, the administration did
come in saying there's a lot of um you
know excess spending by the government.
Do they use this opportunity to start to
cut people cut you know Democrat
programs and does that result in the
pickup in layoffs? I mean we've been in
this low higher low fire labor market.
We were actually looking more at the
private sector. Do layoffs start as
companies try and protect margins? What
if it starts from the government side?
Now, I don't know, maybe it's just a
negotiating ploy. That's I think where
the market is. That's our base case. But
if it starts to actually there are
layoffs here. I think we have to start
thinking that the labor market's much
weaker. We're already a little fragile.
So, I'm not saying it's our base case,
but I wouldn't just say because
historically it hasn't mattered, this
shutdown may not matter.
>> Is there the demand in the private
sector to basically take those layoffs
if they become permanent?
>> No. Great point because the labor market
is stagnant. I mean, if you have a job,
you're not getting laid off. You're not
getting paid a lot more. So, that's my
my signal of slack is building up. So,
wages are not picking up. Trying to find
a job right now in the private sector,
even without the government potential
workers, is difficult. You add more
labor supply, I think it's going to be
hard. And that's what's going to make
the unemployment rate start to pick up.
Now, we may be in a shutdown, so we may
not know it, but we're going to look at
other ways to see is that slack starting
to move.
>> Do you have any thinking behind what
kind of numbers we could see in these
type of federal layoffs that maybe
become permanent?
>> That's the tricky part. I mean, Doge
came in much lower than what they had
come in with. Do they try and get back
to like million? I mean, we're
estimating about 300,000 uh voluntary
retirements have already happened and
you're going to see that in the data
when we get the data in the next few
months. Um, you know, I don't that's a
hard one. I think we just have to watch
the president. I'm still hoping it's a
negotiating tactic. It's to put pressure
on the Democrats, but if not, um, yeah,
we'll just have to react to what those
numbers are, but I look at valuation.
Nobody's really expecting a pickup in
layoffs. Look at the stock market at
highs. Bonds are not pricing in a big
slowdown. They're just pricing in moving
to neutral. So, I think the market will
react to this.
>> So, Pria, that's the tough one for you
really for market participants.
Economists just have to go through one
stage. you have to go through too. Guess
the data then guess how the market
responds to it. So at the moment and
over the past few months, ever since we
got that July payroll report in August,
things started to look weak, fragile.
Then we had all these revisions, massive
step down in payrolls growth, but the
market kept on climbing. Both equities
and credit pricing in a reaceleration,
an expansion. Do you think maybe that
weak data starts to become bad news for
this market? I think weak data is always
bad news unless the Fed is super
aggressive taking rates to zero or below
neutral and we're not pricing that in.
So if you get really weak data I think
you know to some extent the
reacileration is a narrative that's
trying to fit price action. So I look
below the hood uh and I'm not saying
you're doing that.
>> No I can take it pre carry on please.
>> There is a view that we're reacelerate.
Where in the data do you see the
reaceleration? So the stock market,
credit spreads, I get that. The stock
market, let's look under the hood. It's
really an AI story. GDP, you strip out
AI from investment. GDP is about 0 to 1%
depending on how much you want to strip
out AI or how you calculate that. We're
not reacilerating. Now you go out 6
months and the one big beautiful bill
provides some fiscal stimulus. And if we
get certainty, remember, I know we don't
want to talk about tariffs, but we're
still seeing tariff announcements every
week. And so if you get certainty on
tariffs, this is the trade deal. Now, as
a company, I can figure out what supply
chains are. Maybe you get that
reaceleration. So, I'm not negative long
term, but right now, we don't see signs
of reaceleration. uh we see signs of you
know soft landing subtrend growth is
what bond people call it where you're
growing between 1 and 2% inflation a big
fear after liberation day has not really
materialized so the Fed is saying okay
we were worried about those risks now
we're looking at the labor market maybe
we start to take rates down to neutral
and that's why I don't think there's a
very big disconnect I think every market
is pricing in this AI structural theme
and then some cyclical slowdown which is
allowing the Fed to take rates down. But
if you start to see the cyclical side
accelerate to your question on if you
start to see bad news on you know we
don't have payrolls but something or
claims something else. Um then I think
the market's going to say okay maybe
this is slowing down and what will a
couple of rate cuts do? I think that
question then starts to unwind some of
this pressure.
>> Allow me to put it another way. Some
tension between corporate earnings and
the labor market. That's real. That
really is real. Do you think that
tension could persist?
>> Um, I think that is the trillion dollar
question. So, how did corporates deal
with tariffs? They stopped hiring. I
think we were looking at do they pass on
the cost or do they absorb it in
margins? Margins have stayed strong. One
of the reasons why corporate spreads are
tight is fundamentals of company balance
sheets are strong. Do they continue? I
do think the tariff rate today is higher
than it was a few months ago. So will
companies take the margin hit? Some
might. But overall, I think companies
might continue to keep hiring low.
That's why the labor market is weak
because hiring is low. Now, if they're
able to pass on costs, I don't think the
consumer can take it. I mean, at the
margin, certain areas they can pass on
the prices. So, I guess long-winded way
of saying that tension may not be able
to last for too long. I don't know about
second quarter, third quarter earnings.
Maybe it's an early next year phenomena,
but at what point do companies say, "I'm
facing higher tariffs. I'm going to
actually have to lay off people." I
think that's the tail risk scenario. And
if the layoffs start, I think then we're
talking about the Fed needs to cut
wealth through neutral. We can debate
what neutral is, but at least below 3%.
And then I think you get a bigger move
in rates and then the equity market has
to figure out, you know, how much of it
is AI versus everything else. But uh
that tension I think companies have have
tried to do more with less and tried to
pay for tariffs through lower hiring.
>> What would be the catalyst for the
firings? Just they can't absorb the
higher costs anymore
>> and they can't pass it on if they have a
view that the consumer is not willing to
pay. I'm sure they'll try and take some
in margins. They'll try productivity
other productivity increases. But the
other way would be well maybe I just you
know so far I've not hired maybe I now
start to cut costs by laying off. That's
what American companies do. They have a
we have a dynamic labor market.
Historically, slowdowns have happened
when companies say, "I'm going to have
to cut costs here." And this is the
fastest way to cut costs is actually lay
off people. I should say that is not our
base case. We're hoping that companies
can be innovative and not have to lay
off people. Maybe they find some AI way
to raise productivity. I think that is
the big question. We've seen all the AI
investment. Do we get the AI
productivity that allows companies to
keep the people, not have to lay off
people, absorb the the the tariffs and
get the productivity increased through
automation.
>> Was this an argument to extend duration?
>> Absolutely. And this is very different
from where we were April 2nd when I was
saying stay away from the long end
because it's there's a lot of the sell
America, there's the deficit. Number
one, the deficit's better today. We're
raising a lot in tariff revenues. uh we
you know that's going to improve the
deficit not long term but at least over
this year the market's pricing in that
the other question about the long end is
what are we pricing in we're pricing in
the Fed cutting to 3% and staying there
and then term premium which is what we
define how much extra compensation are
you getting for extending out the curve
that has gone up so I think extending
from the 5year to the 10 year makes
sense for the third year I still want to
see something from the US Treasury I
think they need to cut supply in the
long end There just isn't a global D.
It's a global question demand for
duration. So I don't know about
extending all the way to the 30 year but
the 10 year I think at 4% our view has
been in a soft landing 375 to 4 and a
quarter but there's asymmetry to that.
If there's a slowdown I think rates will
go much lower and that's when you want
some duration.
>> Just quickly if the Fed paused balance
sheet rolloff would that make any kind
of incremental difference to you?
>> At the margin it's a little less supply
if they stop QT. QT is running at a low
rate. I do think it's a it's good news
because the front end then can calm
down. We've seen some pressure in sofas,
some pressure in Fed funds. So I do
think in the and we're watching the
minutes for that. I I'm pretty sure
there was some discussion around QT and
maybe they'll signal that in the next
meeting or two they're going to cut QT
at the margin. It's positive for
duration. It's also positive for risk
because it prevents that deleveraging.
Remember September 19 when repo rates
spiked? It prevents it takes that tail
risk off if they were to stop QT, but
it's a smaller
>> always odd when they're allowing balance
sheet roll off and reducing interest
rate simultaneously. I've I've always
found that.
>> Well, if you're going from restrictive
to neutral, you can continue balance
sheet runoff in the background. If you
go below neutral, now you're
accommodative. It makes no sense to be
doing QT. But that's how the Fed can
still reconcile doing QT. It's in the
background. We're just taking rates from
we're taking the balance sheet from
excess excess reserves or their term
abundant to ample. Um but we're just
that and I think that's the theme. We're
just taking restriction out. So October
I think the Fed's cutting even if the
shutdown lasts for a while because they
in their mind they're just taking some
restriction out of the market. I don't
know about next year if we this shutdown
lasts for longer I think that's when it
gets harder.
>> Well then we've got a new leadership
story at the Federal Reserve and a much
longer conversation. Period. Good to see
you. Thanks for dropping by. Thank you,
Pria Misra of JP Morgan. Let's get you
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Chinese tech giant
Huawei was found to have used foreign
hardware in its AI processors.
Semiconductor watchdog Tech Insights
discovered gear from Taiwan's TMSC along
with Samsung and SKHEX in multiple
samples of its chips. Huawei didn't
respond to a request for comment during
a week-long holiday in China.
Apple's app store removed Ice Block and
other applications used to report and
track sightings of US Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents. This after
Attorney General Pam Bondi urged the
iPhone maker to remove the software.
Iceblocks developer maintains it's not
different from other software that
relies on crowdsources data.
Black Rockck's global infrastructure
partners is said to be an advanced talks
to acquire Aligned data centers. aligned
could be valued at about $40 billion.
The deal would be one of the biggest for
the year. A spokesperson for Black
Rockck declined to comment. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Fy, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, ending the government shutdown.
>> We have conversations and I'm I'm
assuming we'll have more uh back in
tomorrow. We'll have another opportunity
to vote to end the shutdown tomorrow.
Leader Schumer and myself haven't gotten
a single phone call
as it relates to a follow-up
conversation.
>> That conversation up next with Janette
Low of Strategus live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equity
futures on the S&P positive here by 0.2%
on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ up by 0.2%
also typically I'd sit here and say 1
hour 13 minutes away from the payroll
report but we're probably not going to
get one of those countdown. Don't you?
>> I love a countdown unless someone
springs a surprise on us.
>> This is true. I mean I don't want to go
into the conspiracy theories but there
is a theory out there that
>> the NEC's got the number. the NEC
director has the number and then he
would have briefed the president last
night or this morning. So if the
president does have the number, does he
do his own payrolls report release at
8:30 on Truth Social? Stay tuned.
>> Can you imagine?
>> That would that would be something we
would cross a Rubicon in this country.
>> And let's just put it this way. That's
not the base case this morning. The base
case is we're not expecting a jobs
report at 8:30 Eastern time. under
Savylvanas this morning ending the
government shutdown.
>> We have conversations and I'm I'm
assuming we'll have more uh back in
tomorrow. We'll have another opportunity
to vote to end the shutdown tomorrow.
>> Leader Schumer and myself haven't gotten
a single phone call
as it relates to a follow-up
conversation.
>> The issue set is pretty straightforward.
I don't know that, you know, a
negotiation is going to accomplish a
lot. We need credible partners on the
other side of the aisle.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
US government shutdown entering its
third day. The Senate preparing to hold
a vote on a stop gap spending bill to
reopen the government. Bloomberg's Laura
Davidson joins us now from Washington
for more. Laura, you've tracked the
story all week for us. What's the
update? It's day three. What's going to
break this bill ultimately on day four,
5, 6, 7, 8? It's going to take 10, 15,
30 days. I've got no idea.
The the thing that to watch here are
what are moderate Democrats in the
Senate doing. Uh leaders Schumer and and
Jeff are not talking with Johnson and
Thun. Um there is uh there there is
essentially no progress 3 days in. Uh
the question is is you know how much
pressure does Trump and the White House
put on Democrats. You know, they've
threatened these firings. They've
threatened to cut more uh spending. That
has not yet material materialized, but
that could very well come later today.
The other question is lawmakers are
going to vote again and then go home for
the weekend. What kind of pressure are
they getting from constituents? uh you
know we will basically be start next
week they'll come back to the capital
Monday night and uh you know we may very
well be in the same place we are now of
there is no progress and you start to
see some of these moderate members who
are worried about their reelection come
next year say hey we need to get
something started uh you know we need to
to move our position talk about
healthcare talk about you know kind of
what uh sort of things we could take
whether that be a future vote or or
other options because uh this is not a
politically tenable situation. Laura,
what is incentivizing those moderate
Democrats at the moment?
>> Right now, um they believe that um once
these notices start going out informing
people that their premiums are going to
increase, that public sentiment will be
on their side. Um that's the gamble that
Schumer has put out, we'll see if that
materializes. Uh but if they start to
see that you know sort of uh anger and
and frustration over health care costs
uh you know are dwarfed by anger and
frustration over the government shutdown
and services not being available and
people just feeling generally uh you
know frustrated that that Washington
isn't working. Uh those are the two
things they're weighing. Um and you know
how much uh a shutdown will affect the
midterms. Right now they're betting that
people care more about healthcare when
the midterms are a year away versus uh
you know sort of a little bit of chaos
in Washington for a week or two.
>> Laura, thanks for the update and thanks
for covering the story for us through
this week. I imagine we'll be talking to
you again on Monday. Laura Davidson
there of Bloomberg down in Washington
DC. Janette Low of Strategus joins us
now for more. Janette, as you know, as
is often the case, this is one or lost
in the court of public opinion. Who's
winning and losing right now?
>> Yeah, I mean right now I think if you
look at the polls, you do see that
Republicans are getting a little bit
more blame than Democrats are currently,
but both parties are getting a hit from
this. And in general, we do see that
both parties generally do um get some
backlash for a government shutdown. The
same thing happened in 2013 um with
President Obama getting some of the
blame even though Republicans kind of
put the government into a shutdown. So
both parties may ultimately um suffer
from this and that's how they kind of
have to figure out who's suffering more
is where their point the pain point may
be to actually get the government to
reopen.
>> Janette, what do you see as the offramp?
So, this is going to be um kind of a
difficult situation. So, the parties are
kind of far apart right now. The
Republicans do agree that probably
something does need to be done to extend
the ACA subsidies, probably a short-term
extension, maybe a year, um maybe a year
with some amendments, some reforms to
the process. And so, the Democrats are
pushing for that, but the Republicans
are also saying that they can't do
anything until the government is
reopened. while the Democrats are um
nervous that the Republicans will not
hold their word on this. So, what we're
thinking is that probably what you're
going to have to see is either a some
major political pressure coming in,
which would mean we're seeing missed
paychecks in the middle of the month for
military members, for congressional
staff, which will also put pressure. Um
but then also, do the moderate members
come together to figure out how they can
figure out some sort of agreement to get
us out of this shutdown? It probably
will have to be in some form around the
ACA subsidies. The longer this goes on,
this could last two to three weeks just
depending if we don't see any momentum
towards a deal. As we get later into the
month, you have the missed paychecks
that adds pressure. You start to maybe
get some of these premium increase
announces that will add pressure and
that could be where we see the ultimate
solution. Well,
>> the Republicans already picked up three
votes in terms of the Democrats willing
to vote for the clean stop gap funding
measure. Who else should we be looking
at?
>> Yeah, I think you look at retiring
members. Um, so members like Senator
Shaheen from New Hampshire, Senator
Peters from Michigan, also watching the
Virginia senators since they have a
significant um portion of the federal
workforce in their constituencies. Those
will also be key members to watch. Um,
so we want to see if there are they have
a vote today. Do more Democratic
senators join on to the clean CR or do
we go into the weekend and have no u
movement at all? If we do see more
Democratic senators join, then obviously
that would be showing a sign that there
is more pressure to get to a deal at
some point. Um but if we don't, this
could definitely start to linger a lot
longer into next week and potentially
even the following week. And how are you
thinking about the president's meeting
with Russ vote yesterday and whether or
not he was going to be making layoffs
that usually historically are just
furlows and those individuals come back
to their job permanent.
>> Yeah, I mean this is obviously at least
a threat. Um so this is something that
they think the administration would like
to do and they see this as an
opportunity. This is one of the reasons
the Democrats were actually worried
about having a government shutdown in
the first place because they thought
that this could be a tactic that the
administration would use. But then at
the same time, you're also seeing
Democrats getting some support um among
federal worker unions and saying it's
okay that you're doing the shutdown
because we know we're under attack
anyways from this administration. So
there's a little bit of we could
probably definitely see some layoffs,
some permanent layoffs. Um but then they
also may be challenged by the courts. Um
and that also could play into public
opinion as well. So that also could be
something that depending on how these
play out that could be key to which side
actually gets more blame and it um where
the pressure ends up being longer term.
>> Janette, appreciate you jumping on this
morning. Busy one for you I'm sure going
into the weekend. Janette Lo there of
Strategus with the latest down in
Washington DC. Just got a message from a
Bloomberg subscriber. Aren't people numb
to this in this country given the chaos,
the disarray in Washington, their
opinion of Congress already? shutdowns,
debt ceilings, the opinion of Congress
and how low people rank h what goes on
in Washington DC. Yes, but it also does
matter. Janette, what she said, Ed
Mills, what they said, middle of the
month when those paychecks are set to go
out to service members, that's going to
be a big deal. If those paychecks do not
go out, if your flights continuously get
delayed, that's going to be a big deal.
If the FAA is saying, "We just don't
have the staff and we can't keep up with
this traffic because we have furls."
This is going this is when it starts to
really bite.
>> This can cascade through the economy
pretty quickly. And the question we've
got to ask following the economy and
ultimately financial markets, is it
economic activity delayed or derailed?
We're going to ask that question next.
We'll catch up with Francis Donald of
RBC as the data delay threatens interest
rate cuts from the Federal Reserve when
they get around the table together for a
two-day meeting at the end of this
month. No payrolls report this morning.
Most likely. Will we get it in a few
weeks time before they meet? Plus, we'll
get some morning movers for you. Danny's
going to join us. Taiwan semi rising on
a new connection with Huawei. Their
stock is up by 2%. Live from New York,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
5day winning streak on the S&P 500 looks
like day six at least for now positive
by a tenth of 1% in the bond market
switch the board we'll turn to fixed
income briefly 2-year 10ear and 30-year
bond yield just about unchanged twos are
down on the week though because the data
hasn't been great 35450 particularly ADP
but that's all we've got to go on then
we're looking for payrolls we're not
going to get that you're going to get
the ISM a little bit later this morning
that's the next stop 10 a.m. Eastern
time for a read on ISM services. That's
the state of things right now as we
count you down to the open about two
hours away. Let's get you some single
names, some stock movers. Here's Danny
with more. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. TSM see the US ADR rallying
this morning after a tear down by one uh
company from Canada on the latest Huawei
chips. It shows that they use basically
all Asian suppliers from SKH Highix to
Samsung and yes, TSMC chips are included
on in that. So rallying off the back of
that about 2% higher. Also a rebound
this morning for Tesla. Shares fell 5%
yesterday even though they came out with
record sales. The issue was is it seemed
like consumers were rushing to buy Tesla
to get ahead of the expiry of the $7,500
tax credit for EVs. Of course, the Trump
administration phasing that out. So was
it just a temporary sugar rush? Shares
fall and we are buying that dip this
morning only up by 1.1%.
Meanwhile, we are looking at another
rare earth's company, rare mineral earth
mineral company rallying this morning.
That's UA, USA Rareear, Inc. A CNBC
report that they've been in talks with
the Trump administration and were
specifically asked whether they'd want
to do a deal with the Trump
administration. This follows off the
back of the administration looking at
other deals with other rare earth
mineral companies. So, those shares up
2.4%. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour, about 60 minutes from now. On
our radar this morning, some of our top
stories. The government shutdown
delaying the release of September
payrolls. Many economists leaning on
alternative data and some predicting US
job growth is slowing. Elsewhere,
Bridgewater Associates flagship macro
fund climbing 26% this year with a boost
from tariff fueled market uncertainty.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
the hedge fund is on track for its
biggest gain since 2010. And finally,
this story right here, potentially quite
controversial. Argentina's economy
minister and central bank president
traveling to Washington today to
negotiate a proposed $20 billion FX
swap. Treasury secretary Scott Besson
saying the US supports President Jav
Millle, but the aid is not an outright
US investment.
>> So they're trying to give an olive
branch to Argentina through this FX
swap, which by the way wasn't on the
table when I sat down for the Treasury
Secretary in Argentina in April. It's
now on the table and it comes at a time
when Argentina is sending soybeans to
China and China is not buying any cargos
from the United States. And this is why
this has become politically a ton of
tension within this administration
between Secretary of Agriculture Brooke
Rollins and the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besset. I said it last hour, I'll say it
again. For this president, this might
become a problem. He wants to make
America great again. At this moment,
people are viewing this as making
Argentina great again and their ability
to fill the US gap and sending soybeans
to China.
>> So, some tension in the cabinet. So,
let's talk about where the president
stands on this. The president at the
moment is talking about bailing out the
farmers who aren't getting those soybean
purchases in the negotiations with the
Chinese later on this month. He's going
to have a conversation about busting
those purchases, maybe returning back to
the purchase program, the agreement of
the president's first term. What's he
saying about what's happening with
Argentina? Have we had a response from
him? Have we had a response from the
Treasury Secretary?
>> Well, the Treasury Secretary is saying
that this isn't outright money. So,
they're trying to say like, look, this
is a financial instrument to help them.
This isn't outright money and they're
going to have this conversation today
with the finance minister in Washington.
This is going to become a little bit
more challenging for the president when
Javier Mille is in Washington according
to reports in about two weeks time
alongside the IMF World Bank meetings.
And if the government is still shut down
and they haven't given those bailouts
the bailout yet the Wall Street Journal
is talking about 10 to 14 billion to the
farmers then potentially the heat is
going to be turned on.
>> At the moment the government is shut
down. It's day three which means we're
not getting that payroll report in about
60 minutes from now. Francis Donald of
RBC has this to say. The timing of the
government shutdown is not ideal for the
Federal Reserve. Limited visibility into
the September data increases the
probability of an October pause. Francis
joins us now for more. Francis, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> So, this is a slightly different take
because we've had a guest come on the
program and say they're not going to
deviate from the dot plot. Ultimately,
they're expecting a rate cut still in
October. Why would this lead to a pause?
>> Well, let's remember, Chair Powell has
talked a lot in the past when you're
walking in a room and it goes dark, you
go more slowly, you don't necessarily
speed up. Uh and at the end of the day,
we have to remember this shutdown is
compounding an existing problem, which
is that our data is being substantially
distorted by tariff developments,
frontloading inventories. We know that
companies, clients that we talk to and
others are finding ways to navigate
around that using things like bonded
warehouses, for example, or changing the
timing of their purchases. And then on
top of that, now we're going to miss
probably a month of solid evidence as to
what actually happened in there. So from
our point of view, just like a company
or a uh consumer at the end of the day
is maybe going to say let's be a little
bit more cautious to us this is going to
raise more questions than it is make it
very clear what the definitive path
ahead should be.
>> So Amarie was talking about this earlier
on this morning. The data itself has
been a problem. How dependable is the
data anyway for this Federal Reserve?
>> Well, this is the thing for economists
right now is there is already a giant
question mark around what data should we
be using? Are there biases within the
data? were there will there be on a go
forward basis? We've already for years
been dealing with low response rates and
we know that the economy is operating in
a way that changes the way we need to
use data. Confidence data for example in
our view is still very valuable. It
explains how consumers are feeling. But
if the top 10% of consumers are spending
50% of all the consumption, then
confidence data is not the same valuable
tool it was in the past. Layer on that
on top of that tariffs and we've been
really in a dark place with respect to
how we can read visibly. And that's why
in a way, John, I'm not that upset that
we're going to miss a month of data
because I think there's so much
obsession over this monthto-month in
part driven by the Fed that's highly
data dependent. We need to focus on some
of the bigger trends and the bigger
trends are clear. This is a labor market
that is structurally very different. We
don't need the same amount of job growth
as we did before. We only believe that
this needs this economy needs to create
40,000 jobs a month for the unemployment
rate to stay stable. We know growth is
slowing off the back of tariffs and some
price pressures that are coming through.
And we know inflation is likely to
reacelerate into year end. And I could
for a month go dark on data and tell you
that I'm still fairly confident that
will be the story 30 days from now. Uh
but when of course we're hyper sensitive
and we're in an environment where policy
makers are really trying to move
month-to-month, of course the market is
going to feel a little more
uncomfortable with that lack of
visibility.
>> Are you saying the Fed is too data
dependent?
>> Well, no. What we're saying is that the
month-to-month variability in data, this
has always been true, uh, sometimes
leads us in the wrong directions. And I
think what's really challenging right
now, is that that tariff distortion is
very much still in play. We hear all the
time, oh, tariffs are not inflationary.
That may turn out to be true. It's not
our view, but we won't know that till
the middle of 2026. So, the issue with
data dependence right now isn't data
dependence in and of itself. It's data
dependence in an in an environment where
we don't have good reads and our
month-to-month data is not telling us
the true story of the American economy
or the American consumer.
>> So, what do you look at on a day like
today? You're not getting the jobs
report. What's your north star in terms
of directing you towards these trends?
>> Well, today's not actually the problem.
So, any economist would have released
their estimate for where jobs would be
last week and everybody's week ahead.
Our estimate was 52,000. The problem
will be next month when we don't have
the aggregate amount of data that helps
us forecast what happens next. At the
end of the day, we tell clients focus on
the trend. We think the unemployment
rate will rise gradually to 4 and a.5
4.6%. But we've been through a few
cycles. All of us at this table, if I
may say that, we know that 4.6%
unemployment is still very low, very
tight labor market underneath the
surface. So, we are doing what we've
been doing for the last year. Much more
bottom-up work, much more sector focus.
look at your actual end consumer. Which
one are you servicing? Which one are you
investing in? And look at their
individual stories. And then of course,
we have a table of all the indicators
that we look at from war notices to
LinkedIn postings that help us get a
little bit more of a month-to-month
gauge. But the message here is actually
one of relief. Focus on the big picture.
That's probably going to guide you
towards better investment decisions and
better operating decisions if you're
running a business.
>> You'll forgive me for bringing up the
shutdown then, but we do have to talk
about it just a little bit. The
government shutdown in Washington, it
can have implications for the economy.
Typically, we know how the movie goes.
economy has a bit of a blip then we
accelerate we pick up again and we look
through the whole thing and that's
ultimately how markets play this story
too do you see it as delayed deferred
activity or are we at this point where
things are a little bit more fragile
that where things could be somewhat
derailed
>> well I I watch your show in the mornings
and I'll repeat what just about every
economist has told you our traditional
rule of thumb is the shutdown is worth
about 0.1 percentage points of GDP each
week that it goes on and then it becomes
nonlinear likely around the middle of
the month the longer it's out the more
it bleeds through the economy We're
focused on some of the things related to
contract workers as well. So all the
economy that circulates around the
government that may see a pause at the
end of the day. You know, I talk about
the shutdown being emblematic of larger
trends. And there's two that sort of
worry us. This economy was already
slowing down. So these additional bumps,
they exacerbate the problem. They
exacerbate the uncertainty component.
But under the surface, we've also in the
past year, again, we're thinking about
how this relates to the bigger trends,
been much more focused on the fiscal
side of the picture. the policy side of
the picture than the monetary policy
side of the picture. And that's largely
because this economy is becoming less
sensitive to the Fed's next move and
much more sensitive to what's happening
in Washington. We see this in the yield
curve. We see this at the long end of
the curve. But many Americans are
leveraged to the belly and the long end
of the yield curve with the Fed is not
successfully being able to um influence
at this point of view. So acrimonious
Washington to me is not necessarily
about the GDP impact for September and
October. It's about this transformation
where we move away from monetary policy
being the core driver of the business
cycle and realize that if we really want
to know where are we, we have to watch
fiscal spending, the deficit and the
path for that ahead.
>> Is this shutdown different though if
Trump decides to make these furlows
permanent?
>> Oh absolutely. And and so when we look
at the numbers, for example, if we were
to see, and this is the extreme example,
this wouldn't happen. But if by October
17th, that'll be the reference week for
next month's job number. If we haven't
seen folks come back, you could see the
unemployment rate jump to 4.8%. Now, our
estimate is that it would then come back
down. But these are the types of numbers
that begin to skew the story to a
certain
>> down. I'm saying if he decides to say I
actually want to move more people into
the private sector and I'm getting rid
of these offices, these jobs, isn't that
more of a permanent effect?
>> Absolutely, that would be more
permanent, but that number is ultimately
probably going to be quite small. But
the most extreme thing, let's say every
person would be laid off, which is not
going to happen. Uh you would see that
number jump to 4.8. Again, this is
emblematic of the bigger picture, which
is job growth is slowing. We are going
to see less job creation on a go forward
basis with the exception of healthcare.
Healthcare is going to continue to be
fairly robust there. So this is the
trend continuing slower job growth,
slower overall growth, less confidence
in the economy and reduced data
visibility. It is as we say stagflation
light.
>> Francis, you're one of the best.
Appreciate it. Absolute clinic as
always. Francis Donald there of RBC and
the jobs report we won't be getting and
the trends you need to focus on. Equity
futures right now in the S&P 500
positive by 210 of 1% with an update on
stories worldwide. With your Bloomberg
brief is Vonyie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Goldman Sachs CEO
David Solomon is bullish on the US
economy. Speaking to Bloomberg's Tom
McKenzie earlier in Italy, Solomon said
he sees tailwinds such as tech spending
helping the United States. The
>> US economy is in pretty good shape and
there are some very, very strong
tailwinds that have really had a
profound effect. I'm optimistic that
we're probably going to see an
acceleration as we continue to head into
2026.
>> Just last month, Solomon warned
President Trump's trade policies were
weighing on growth.
Another setback for Boeing. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the
company's 777X Jet will fly commercially
in 2027 instead of next year. The delay
could result in potentially billions of
dollars in accounting charges. The jet
is already six years late and has major
strategic and financial importance to
Boeing.
Are you ready for it, Swifties? Taylor
Swift's highly anticipated 12th studio
album, The Life of a Showgirl, is out
now. The album features 12 tracks with
the title track featuring Serena
Carpenter. Swift's latest album is the
most pre-saved in Spotify history,
surpassing 5 million pre-saves. We'll
have to keep an eye on shares of Spotify
later. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Bonnie, thank you. appreciate the
update. Thank you very much. Up next on
the program, divisions remaining and the
Fed.
>> We're going to go off of what the data
we have. It suggests that the
unemployment rate was unchanged. I think
it's it indicates some steadiness in the
labor market and I think the underlying
economy is still growing pretty solidly.
Up next, Mike Collins of PGM live from
New York. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
equities are positive higher by 0.2% 2%
on the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ 100 up
by2%. Also 5day winning run on the S&P
looks like day six already the longest
daily winning streak since the end of
July. A lot of bulls have come on this
program but a lot of people have come on
the show so far this week and really
explained why this is such a
riskfriendly moment. Krishna of Everor
saying because of this growth labor
divergence it looks like the growth side
is fine. The labor side is perhaps
weakening more. The Fed is taking its
cue from the labor side and that's why
this is so risk friendly. And my part of
Black Rockck was saying something
similar. Strong growth environment with
labor market weakness given the Fed more
room to cut. That's a positive backdrop
for risk assets.
>> And you just heard from Francis Dunan.
What is she talking about? The trend. It
doesn't matter to her if we have this
entire month off when it comes to data
cuz also everyone thinks the Fed maybe
is a little bit too obsessed with
month-to-month data. She's looking at
the trends and the trends are showing
you that we potentially are going to
have an higher unemployment rate and
there is some weakening in this economy.
It's just so difficult when you wake up
and you're talking about trillion dollar
companies and the capex boom we're
seeing when it comes to artificial
intelligence in the top companies on the
S&P 500
>> delivering fantastic profits. That
divergence between corporate earnings
great and the labor market not so great.
The Fed's responding to one and not the
other and the market is focused on both.
We get the rate cuts and the earnings.
Stocks are at alltime highs in the bond
market. 2-year bond yields at the front
end of the curve around 350 now
repricing lower this week down by around
10 basis points off the back of weaker
than expected economic data 35388.
Under surveillance this morning
divisions remaining at the Federal
Reserve. If we don't get the official
unemployment rate, we're going to go off
of what the data we have. We released it
today. It suggests that the unemployment
rate was unchanged for this month from
last month. I think it's it indicates
some steadiness in the labor market and
I think the underlying economy is still
growing pretty solidly. So here's the
latest this morning. The Chicago Fed
President Austin Gby leaning on
alternative data saying the labor market
remains stable. Mike Collins of PGM
calling his macrobased case a muddle
through writing while downside tales
remain and there is a chance for a mild
recession we see limited crash risk.
Mike joins us now for more. Mike welcome
to the program sir. It's an odd one
isn't it? No payrolls report in 42
minutes expected but let's go with the
language from Austin Goulsby. He seems
to think the labor market is solid.
Would you call it solid? Would you say
things are stable?
Yeah, the labor market is is a
conundrum, Jonathan, just like a lot of
the economic data and like the Fed uh
outlook. And what you're seeing in the
labor market is the supply of labor is
coming down fast, right? Uh plans for
companies to hire is is kind of in a
freef fall, right? But the the one uh
outlier within the data is is the
firing, right? We're really not seeing
uh any layoffs. It's it's just kind of a
flat as a pancake in terms of uh
companies laying people off uh firings.
So so maybe companies are really just
holding on to uh the people they have
trying to maintain their margins uh
through other means right but I think
you are seeing this this kind of sneaky
uh weakness in the job market. Uh I
would say if you look at the whole you
know data set of of the labor market it
definitely looks like it's it's
weakening to us. Typically the last
thing to happen, right, is companies lay
off people. So maybe that's the last
shoe to drop.
>> Yeah, Mike, that's what I want to get
into here. You've seen it all for a long
time. You've been one of my favorites in
fixed income. You know that. I can say
it loud and proud right here on TV.
Mike, it's very strange to see such a
strong corporate earnings profile. At
the same time, we see such muted hiring
intentions. When you start to see that,
does it typically break one way or the
other?
>> Yeah. one chart I was looking at
yesterday, Jonathan, if you look at the
the stock market, right, it's going
straight up. And then you look at the
the growth rate of the labor market, you
know, new jobs, it's going straight
down. Uh, typically those things are
highly correlated, right? So,
something's got to give. And I would
guess it's the it's the, you know, the
bulliant um, you know, real bullish
fever we have out there in asset prices
and and in markets and and maybe even in
earnings, right? Earnings expectations,
as you know, Jonathan, for the next two
years are still in the low teens
year-over-year growth. Now, granted, a
lot of that is concentrated in in a
relatively small amount of companies,
but you are seeing breath uh earnings
breath in the in the stock market really
expand a little bit here, which is very
encouraging why you're seeing, you know,
things like the Russell 2000 small
companies uh actually start to
outperform a little bit here or at least
catch up. Uh which is nice. Nice. So it
it is a a real challenging environment
for an economist, for an analyst, for a
data scientist, for the Fed uh to to
parse all this data and figure out you
talked about in your opening, you know,
our muddle through, the muddle through
is our base case, meaning growth is
going to be in the ones, inflation is
going to be in the high twos, right? The
labor market is weakening, but isn't
going to fall apart. That's like the
base case, but wow, the tales, Jonathan,
are pretty big. And the downside tail is
recession obviously and it seems to me
like that risk is actually increasing
albeit it would be a mild one but the
upside tail risk you know where earnings
continue to boom the stock market
continues to boom AI capex continues to
boom the wealth effect continues to
drive the economy that's a big risk
right and then the problem is so that's
the bubble scenario right you have the
recession scenario and the bubble
scenario as your tails and they both end
badly right so that's really where
you're trying to thread the needle here
in the in the bond market and when
you're managing money to to try to
really rely on that base case and and
not blow up in the tales.
>> Mike, putting these two stories
together, how does the Federal Reserve
address higher unemployment because AI
is taking those jobs and AI is doing so
well because the capbacks you're seeing
at these companies.
>> Yeah. I mean, productivity, right? I
mean, AI is that is the upside story,
Amry, right? It's it's the AI, it's the
productivity boom, it's the resilience
of this economy which has been largely
driven by this this really powerful
wealth effect which does have legs and
there is a trickle down component right
I mean the stats you see are you know
10% of the wealthiest people in this
country are driving 50% of GDP
unfortunately the other 50% of GDP as
you've reported is coming from AI capex
right so you have this really kind of
bifurcated you know economy running on
on these two small uh you know powerful
engines and I do worry about about the
breath of of the economy and the other
90% of the people who are really
struggling and you are seeing personal
bankruptcies go up you're seeing you
know weakness among even even
corporations in some cases uh you're
seeing you know distressed uh debt
situations start to percolate uh more
frequently so typical late cycle signs
are starting to emerge and I think you
have to really be cognizant of that
>> you mentioned potential recession. Could
we have a shutdown induced recession?
>> I don't think so. I mean, when we looked
at the last time we did this, Amry, it
was 35 days, right? And we did the math
on the actual impact to GDP, it was one
basis point, right? So, if GDP goes from
it was at two, it went to 1.99, right?
>> Mike, hold on. This time could be
different if we get permanent layoffs at
the US government.
Yeah, I I still think it's a little bit
of a a little bit of a rounding error
and uh it's really the big private
sector that we worry about in terms of
the impact on on GDP, you know, and and
the private sector at large is is
actually doing really well here. They're
they're continuing to be creative and
come up with new ways to, you know,
generate earnings, generate sales,
maintain margins, which has been one of
the biggest shocks. You look at profit
margins, right? I mean, I've been saying
for years now that they're going to come
down, and they really haven't. You know,
maybe the layoffs are are the next, like
I said, shoot a drop to preserve
margins, but uh you know, the private
sector has done really uh uh great here.
>> So, Mike, does all of that justify where
spreads are right now?
>> Yeah, credit spreads, I know, Jonathan,
everybody talks about how tight they
are, you know, and and and I know this
is a little inside baseball, right? If
you look at corporate yields are up
here, treasury yields are here. Swap
yields like interest rate swaps are are
way down here, right? So, so part of me
thinks, you know, you're looking at
credit spreads relative to treasuries
might be a little bit of a a
mismeasurement issue, right? Treasuries
are kind of the things that are cheap,
right? they've sold off relative to
other in fixed income assets including
interest rate swaps which is a risk-free
asset and corporate debt which is
increasingly pretty safe right
fundamentals in corporate credit high
yield credit the big publicly traded
credit markets are really really good
right so so maybe it's justified and
maybe it's the treasury yield that's
that's cheap because of all the supply
all the concerns about the fiscal and
all these auctions that we have to you
know find a level to clear the markets
True, Mike. It's a smart way of thinking
about things. Thank you, sir. Important
final point. Mike Collins there of P Jim
Fixed Income. No jobs guess today
because we're not expecting a jobs
report in about 34 minutes time. And
typically, I'd just sit here. First
question, what's your job guess Eastern
time? What's your job guess?
>> I mean, I guess you could still guess.
You just we're not going to know whether
or not I was right or wrong for who
knows what. TVD.
>> You put it really well, Amarie, that the
jobs report has been less dependable
anyway so far this year. It's been
cancelled already. Maybe taking a break
isn't such a bad thing. Up next, the
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
This is an unfamiliar political
situation in just so many respects.
>> It's very difficult to look at the data
without having the data. The less data
that come out, the less of a reason the
Fed would have to deviate from the dot
plot.
>> Earning season is going to take on even
more importance if we have a lack of
government data. Companies are going to
operate through fall.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> We should do this more often, just
Fridays. First Friday of the month
without the payrolls report.
>> Should we just go home?
>> Just way more chill, isn't it? Going
into the weekend from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning to
you all from our audience worldwide. The
third hour of Bloomberg Savannah starts
right now. Your equity market at
all-time highs on a 5-day win streak
adding some weight to the rally. Equity
futures this morning positive across the
board up by a tenth of 1% on the S&P on
the NASDAQ 100 up by a tenth of 1%. Also
some outperformance just a little bit
over on the Russell. The small caps up
by 0.4%. In the bond market focused on
the 2-year we have had a repricing lower
on the week so far off the back of the
data we have had which has been weaker
than expected. 35429 on twos at the
moment. As for the week ahead, the day
ahead going into the weekend, you do get
some data. Probably not getting payrolls
at 8:30 unless something spectacular
happens. ISM services though want to
watch at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time.
>> So, we do get something in this data
desert as Jordan Rochester called it.
But we're not getting to the big one,
the one that the Fed really cares about.
But I love what Francis said the last
hour. She's actually happy about this
because the Fed is almost too tethered
to every single month's data dependency.
And Trump already months ago threw cold
water on the data saying you can't
really take it at what face value
because of the massive revisions. People
in the market were like, "Yeah, we've
been saying this for a while. We don't
love the data collection. The revisions
haven't been great. We still want the
data, but it would be better if it was
more prime time, if it was more more
accurate. So the jobs report has already
been cancelled. Now it's basically
officially canled. And the question
everyone is is when are we going to get
it? When the government opens, we're day
three of the shutdown. likely it's going
to go through the weekend. We're here
for at least another few days.
>> The CPI arguably the bigger one in a few
weeks time. Is that going to be delayed?
Does this shutdown basically delay the
next payroll report as well because of
data collection issues? Let's just run
with what we've had so far this week.
Hasn't been great. Factory activity
shrinking for a 7 month. No new
information there. That's been a shaky
story for a while. Consumer confidence
5-month low. ADP weakest since 2023. You
put that all together. If you wanted a
picture of the economy right now based
on the data we have had, it hasn't been
tremendous.
>> And this is what a lot of economists
have been arguing like Francis, the
trend is already set. You don't need
today's job support, which we're not
going to get MIA to basically tell the
Fed that they should be looking at
what's happening in a weakening labor
market and cutting. Again, we know
that's where the Fed's bias is right
now. The issue a lot of people are
starting to have though is that by mid
of next year some economists think the
tariffs will actually start to bite. Is
that is that going to mean more
potentially inflation or is that going
to be mass layoffs because corporations
can't just eat the tariffs anymore and
they actually need to start making up
some of this on the margins.
>> 27 minutes away from staring into space
waiting to see if something crazy
happens. Mike McKe's going to
>> look at Truth Social
>> later on this morning at 8:30 Eastern
time. Maybe the president's got the
number. Perhaps he'll release it. No one
really knows. Equity futures on the S&P
500 up by about a tenth of 1%. Coming up
this hour, Nadia Level of UBS. The
stocks trade near all-time highs. Becky
Frankitz of Manpower Group as we break
down the health of the labor market and
Seth Carpenter of Morgan Stanley warning
that tariff impacts are still ahead. We
begin this hour with stocks shaking off
the political division in Washington.
Nadia level of UBS writing, "We expect
the market to stay steady despite the
government shutdown with temporary macro
data delays unlikely to stop further Fed
rate cuts." Nadia joins us now for more.
Nadia, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is this delay to the data, not the
suspension of it, but the delay of
releasing it? Is it a reason not to take
risk in any way, shape, or form?
>> Absolutely not. You're seeing it today
in the market. I mean the economist
might have less to do today but the
equity market still has a lot to do and
investors still have a lot to do when
you think about it it feels like the
chase is on Jonathan right the sort of
the seasonal weakness that some were
looking for in September didn't
materialize and that's because the
corporate um commentary has been pretty
sanguin right you also have the AI story
that's still very much alive so we think
that the ingredients are coming together
for a meltup into year end and So
there's a lot to do in the equity market
despite the fact that our government is
shut down and we hope it reopens soon to
be able to play its employees.
>> It sounds like it doesn't make a
difference to you. So let's go with that
phrase meltup. What does that phrase
mean to you? Just help define that just
a little bit. If the chase is on, what's
a meltup look like?
>> Well, when you think about it, you have
a market that's up a lot since the April
lows, up 14% year to date, but reality
is not everyone has participated in
that. And so there's some performance
that needs to be made up by the time we
get to year end. And reality is we do
know that from a seasonal standpoint,
fourth quarter tends to be a pretty
solid quarter, especially when you've
had a solid year to date. And then when
you look into the Q3 earnings season, I
think that it's going to be a good one.
You know, consensus right now is looking
for about 7% EPS growth. We could get to
high uh single digits to low double
digits. And the fact is the spending
continues in AI. So you could see this
market that continues to move higher
another 3, four, 5% into year end. Now
that's not to say even if you get a
small pullback it's going to be bought
in our view.
>> Who hasn't participated that you're
looking to participate?
>> Some of the long onies haven't
participated. A lot of this has been
driven by corporate buyback. It has been
driven by the retail investors also some
of the systematic. But you do have some
long onies that have been sitting on the
sideline. You know the the the the draw
down in April was sharp fast and the
rebound has been also fast and some some
have missed out on that. What are you
looking for in 2026? because you're
thinking a meltup going in. Does it at
some point there's a catalyst for it to
bust?
>> Look, don't don't think that there's a
bust coming. You know, yes, there's
chatter about, you know, potentially
being in an AI bubble. And the fact that
we're debating it suggests to me that
we're probably at if we are in one,
which we don't think that we are, that
we're probably at the start of one, much
closer to the start of one, then towards
the end of one. And when you think about
it, the AI cap stories continue to pick
up. We think that you could see a half a
trillion dollars or so global AI
spending next year. Now, there's this
question about monetization, but even
that is starting to show some signs of
pickup. We're seeing improvement. I
mean, look at the slew of deals that
have been announced in partnership in
the last couple of weeks. And even like
the amount of product launches that
you've had, but from someone that's in
the center of this, open AI this week.
And so, it does suggest that you could
start to see us move into that
monetization phase in more meaningful
way into in 2026. And then reality is
ahead of midterms I think this
administration will be focused on
growth.
>> You've just said something important
about people not participating and I
just want to sit on that for a bit
longer why they haven't participated. 6
months since April 2nd and a lot of
people were scared out of this market.
Then people started to chase it to the
extent that people didn't participate.
This is what torso's got to say on the
issue right now regarding the pandemic
regarding liberation day rather which
felt like the pandemic at the time. The
US economy remains remarkably resilient
and it's becoming increasingly difficult
to argue that we're still waiting for
the delayed negative effects of what
happened 6 months ago. How many people
do you speak to are still being held
back, waiting in fear about seeing the
consequences of what happened 6 months
ago?
>> I think it's a it's sort of continues to
what Ann Marie's question was. Does it
come in 2026? I think people are now say
does this come in? But there's some some
level of capitulation that's starting to
happen now because you're you're just
not see you're not hearing it from the
companies and we know that the
government data we're not sure if we can
trust it right so you now have to listen
even more to the corporate side which is
what we've always been saying and when
you look at the conference season um you
know in September corporates were you
know saying that things are okay you're
not seeing huge pressures on the
consumer nothing incremental the lower
end consumer we've known for a long time
has been weak but the middle to upper
income consumer you know still has a lot
cash on this wealth effect, right? That
they can be able to sustain some of the
pricey increases that we do think will
come in a more gradual way, but we don't
think that that's going to be any sort
of meaningful pullback from those kind
of consumers
>> as they capitulate where they going. Is
this all concentrated in tech or are you
starting to see moves elsewhere?
>> You are seeing a broader now. You know,
I do think that from an investment
standpoint, it continues to flow into
tech, but you're seeing your small cap
also pick up. And also, we think that a
sector that might be interesting for a
catch up here is healthcare, especially
after this week. You're getting a lot
more clarity on the policy front
standpoint with this deal between the
administration and FISA. Does it serve
as a blueprint for more deals? You know,
the fact is that most favor nation,
right, there was concerns that that
could be a broad-based policy. Now, it
looks like it's mostly concentrated in
Medicaid. So that could be a a positive
for the overall healthcare industry and
the fact is that you know valuations are
quite suppressed. We've talked about
elevated valuation healthcare 25%
discount valuation to the S&P. Nadia do
you take a look at lists like
pharmaceuticals
companies that are important for US
national security and defense and start
thinking about maybe people should get
long on these because the US government
might take an outright stake in these
companies.
>> Uh we we'll see if that extends to to
healthcare. So far it hasn't but we
think we think about things from a
structural growth standpoint you know
and that's why we do think that
healthcare and the national story sort
of played in that healthcare is also
part of that story you know eventually
you are going to see from a longevity
standpoint at the end of the day we have
a population that's getting older we
have innovation that could come even in
healthcare through AI in terms of drugs
discovery and so we think that there's a
structural story happening in healthcare
as well along with of course we a most
preferred way to pay structural growth
is through tech. But we think that
healthcare is part of that story too.
>> When you look at this meltup, some
economists are saying, "But we can have
a higher unemployment rate. Jobs market
is weakening." How do you have both?
Isn't it so uncomfortable?
>> We always say, you know, the stock
market and the economy are two different
things, right? Like yes, you could have
an increase in the unemployment rate.
We're not looking at any sort of
meaningful increase.
>> But this administration basically their
barometer of how well they're doing with
the economy is looking at the stock
market. Is that a challenge?
>> Well, what well if if they're looking at
the stock market then they think they're
doing great, right?
But you know, but in all seriousness,
you know, from an employment standpoint,
we don't think that you're going to see
any sort of meaningful pick up in
unemployment. And at the end of the day,
we know that the Fed is there, right, to
help backstab some of that and to help
to stimulate the economy. And if we can
unlock the housing market, maybe there's
a I don't know, a national emergency.
I'm hearing um in terms of the housing
market, that can also help in terms of
um you know, wealth creation and also to
to help that cyclical part of of the
markets and the economy.
>> Who needs a jobs report? It's good to
see you as always on a payroll Friday
without the payrolls. Nadia Lovevel of
UBS. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Well, we are in the
third day of a government shutdown. The
Senate is expected to hold another vote
today on a stop gap spending bill to
reopen the government into mid-
November. Democrats are holding firm on
demands to extend healthcare subsidies.
President Trump is threatening to slash
jobs at what he calls Democrat agencies
that don't align with his agenda.
The Trump administration has frozen $2.1
billion in Chicago infrastructure
projects. US budget chief Ross vote
sharing on X that quote the Redline
extension and the red and purple
modernization project have specifically
been put on hold to quote ensure funding
is not flowing via race-based
contracting.
The Trump administration has also frozen
$18 billion in New York infrastructure
funding for it says similar reasons.
Black Rockck's Global Infrastructure
Partners is set to be in advanced talks
to acquire Aligned Data Centers. Aligned
could be valued at about $40 billion.
The deal would be one of the biggest of
the year. A spokesperson for Black
Rockck just kind to comment. That is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey Fy, thank you. Appreciate it. Up
next, the morning cause plus Becky
Franowitz of Manpower Group as we break
down the health of the labor market.
That conversation up next, live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
This shutdown is compounding an existing
problem which is that our data is being
substantially distorted by tariff
developments, frontloading inventories.
On top of that, now we're going to miss
probably a month of solid evidence as to
what actually happened in there. To us,
this is going to raise more questions
than it is make it very clear what the
definitive path ahead should be.
>> That was the brilliant Francis Donald of
RBC weighing weighing in on what's
happening with the jobs market and the
broader economy going into 8:30 Eastern
time. But now that a payroll report, a
number supposed to drop 15 minutes from
now, but of course not going to drop,
not expected to drop because of the
government shutdown. Entering day three
in the equity market. Equity futures
positive by a tenth of 1% following 5
days of gains. On the NASDAQ 100 up by
0.14 on the Russell up by45. And the
bond market lots of weak economic data
this week bringing down the 2-year bond
yield to the low 350s. 354 right now
just about unchanged on the session.
Lower on the week by around 10 basis
points. Talk lots about weak data, ADP,
the quits rate, manufacturing, the ISM,
all of that. But let's talk about strong
markets. all-time highs in the equity
market, multi-deade tights for
investment grade credit spreads, and we
just came off the back of the biggest
month of credit issuance for the month
of September at least for corporate debt
supply, high yield, and investment
grade. It's been quite a few months for
financial markets, even though we've
seen this deterioration start to creep
in to the labor market. So, that's the
price action and the broader economy.
Let's get you some single names and some
warning calls. First up, UPS lowering
its price target on UPS to 110, saying
it's likely on track with prior
expectations of a low double-digit
decline in domestic volumes. Your second
call from Wells Fargo lowering its price
target on Uber to 125, seeing delivery
volumes in it Q3 report as key for
lowering investor concerns. And finally,
Jeffre cutting Apple to underperform,
seeing an overly bullish iPhone outlook.
A stock is down by 0.8%.
Let's turn back to the labor market. The
government shutdown halting the release
of the payroll data. Becky Frankowitz of
Manpower Group, one of the world's
leading staffing companies, writes the
following. The official jobs report
might be on pause, but the labor market
keeps moving and our data shows a market
in transition. Becky joins us now for
more. Becky, welcome to the show. It's
been too long. What are we transitioning
from and to what?
>> Yeah, so first, it's a strange no jobs
report, jobs Friday. So, usually we say
happy jobs Friday and it is still a
happy jobs Friday because we see real
time, real world data. And John, we're
watching three trends. First, job
hugging is the new job switching. So,
we're not seeing workers switch jobs
anymore. We're seeing them hold on to
their jobs. In fact, switching is down
50% in the last two years. So, workers
are staying put. The second big trend
that we're seeing is lateral is a new
vertical. employers are holding on to
their talent. And so this is there's
this change called micromobility where
we're seeing people change titles but
not change companies. And the final
piece I'd say is growth isn't gone, it's
just moved. So we're seeing growth in
immediate benefit roles, a lot of growth
in the um data scientist, database
architects, things that are tech
forward. And we're seeing some shifts in
even manufacturing where we're seeing
bluecollar workers like engineers, um
people who are on the front line in
terms of manufacturing starting to grow.
Logistics is a little bit soft. Uh of
course, education, retail is showing
some strength, but there is still
growth. You just have to look harder to
find it.
>> Becky, is there growth in entry level
jobs?
>> Amie, it's one of the top things we're
watching. So, if you said, "What are you
watching closely?" I would tell you
impact of AI and entry- level jobs. We
are seeing reduced demand for the
educated yet inexperienced and that is
people coming out of college. So
employers are are prioritizing people
who have actual experience because again
they want immediate impact. Employers
aren't hiring to develop people. They're
hiring to actually get benefit from
their hires today and that is impacting
our entry- level professionals.
>> Historically, what kind of time can you
reckon this back to? When did we see
such a weak environment for entry-
levelvel jobs?
>> Yeah, it's been a long time, Anorie.
It's not We're not in the We're not in
the 2008 stage yet, uh, which was a huge
crisis, but we are seeing a drop of
about 6% in terms of the demand for
entry- level jobs and it's coming. At
the same time, the overall job market is
continuing to cool. It's not just
cooled, it's continuing to cool. We see
total jobs posted. Again, I don't need
BLS to tell you this. We look every day,
total jobs posted have dropped under 7
million. It's always been a 7 million
mark, under 7 million to the lowest
level in four years. And we're seeing
this overall slowing in jobs. And we're
seeing a change in the kinds of jobs
people are hiring entry level. And in
part, it's a bit of wait and see on AI.
I heard one of your prior guests talk
about that. It's a bit of wait and see.
Um, but it's also a bit of economic
uncertainty causing me to prioritize
today versus tomorrow. And Becky, can we
just pick up on the AI point? Where are
you seeing that? How's it showing up?
And how do you draw a distinction
between what is driven by AI and what's
driven by traditional broader economic
concerns?
>> Yeah. Well, it's hard to it's hard to
break apart, John, if I'm honest. But
I'll tell you what the data is showing
us. And the data is showing us that tech
forward roles are surging. Again,
database scientist, data architects,
anything on security is surging today.
Of course, we've seen some softening in
software developers, but guess what?
Back to entry- level roles. It's still
one of the top three entry- level roles.
It's down almost 50% year-over-year, but
it's still in volume one of the top
three. So, we're seeing a pretty
balanced view on AI right now. Employers
are still telling us that if they're
more tech forward as an employer,
digitizing faster, they're intending to
hire more. We're waiting to see that
play out, but right now, I would say
we're seeing a balanced view on AI. Um,
but there is a lot of wait and see on
the promise of the impact of what AI can
give our economy.
>> So, Becky, are you seeing any supply
side issues? Because the big debate on
Wall Street is yes, we've seen a step
down in payrolls growth, but we've also
seen a step down in supply. And the
economists will come on the program and
some of them disagree with each other.
Some might say this is bad. We need to
respond to it. Others might say, well,
this is a supply side story. Yes, you've
had a step down in payrolls, but you've
not had an increase in labor market
slack. From your standpoint, is there a
supply side issue? Do you see that
showing up in the business?
>> Yeah, we're not seeing significant
supply side issues. John, what I would
say we're seeing is a a bit of, and I'm
not using it economically, a bit of
stagnation in terms of mo mobility.
People are staying put. And when people
stay put, it is harder to free up some
of the supply to actually generate this
transition that normally underpins our
economy. When I tell you that job
switching is down 50% 5-0 in the last
two years, that is significant and
that's not having an impact on overall
supply, but it is having an impact on
mobility. And mobility generally leads
to growth in our economy.
>> Does this mean workers are not asking
for higher wages?
>> Yeah, great great question, Emory. What
we're seeing now, again, during the
heights of the pandemic, we saw huge
bonuses for switching jobs. We're seeing
that level has dropped below 7%. So the
premium on switching a job in terms of
your pay increase traditionally runs
around 7%. We've seen that now drop to
about six and three/4ers. Um so we're
not incenting people to move and we're
seeing an increase in people who stay
put. So I'm telling you this whole idea
of job hugging is real from the employee
view and this idea of lateral not
vertical giving titles and a little bit
of pay is real from an employee point of
view. So they're coming together in a
way that people aren't moving.
>> Workers that are able though to move
structurally higher in an organization
because they moved an organization. What
sectors is that happening in?
>> Yeah. So Amry, we're seeing only two
sectors we're seeing this um increase in
switching, if you will. That is
construction and that is in the
financial markets. And you've seen the
headlines on the financial um analysts
that are switching all over New York
City. Um so those those two roles still
have quite a bit of agency and we are
seeing switching there. But for the
others, we're really seeing people stay
put.
>> So Becky, we've been in this low churn
dynamic in the labor market for a while
now. Economists have been talking about
it on this program. You have, too. When
things break one way or the other, we're
always looking for that early
indication. Now, correct me if I'm
wrong. I think you used to lead Quaker
Foods. When you oversaw that business,
Becky, what kind of behavioral changes
were you always looking out for for a
leaning indicator of which way this
economy was about to break?
>> Yeah. So John, you're taking me in the
wayback machine now. Um, we would look
at number of items in the basket. And so
how many goods are people buying, trips
to store, average purchase price that
you're actually putting in your basket?
And I know now from the jobs market
report or what we see in terms of people
actually hiring. Who's hiring today? It
is the costconscious consumer companies
that are hiring. Domino's is hiring.
Lowe's is hiring. So we're not seeing
the high-end retailers hiring. We're
seeing the more accessible retailers
hiring, which tells me in terms of early
indicator, people are still very
costconcious, uncertain about what's
coming and and holding on to their
dollars like they're holding on to their
jobs.
>> Becky, this was great. Let's do it again
soon. It's good to see you. Who needs
the jobs report when you've got Becky
Frankitz of Manpack Group to go through
what's happening in this labor market?
>> Totally agree. And what she's talking
about is what we've heard from a lot of
people. I just love the term she used in
terms of job hugging. That's basically
what Nila has been talking about for
months at ADP. This idea is it's
paralysis in the labor market. Low
hiring, low firing, and people just want
to stay currently in place.
>> You saw it in the quits as well in the
job openings report earlier this week.
And these things can feed on themselves,
that negativity. If you start to feel
like that about your job, it can
influence the consumer behavior. The
good news so far is we haven't seen a
decline in retail sales. In fact, coming
out of the summer, retail sales actually
picked up. So again, we're in the same
point. Which way is this going to break?
It's a huge debate about that right now.
>> Individuals are still going still going
out. They're still going out and
spending. I think what's so concerning
about the labor market and Governor
Waller has talked about this is
individuals who are graduating college
entering the job market. When I entered
the job market and I graduated college,
the unemployment rate was 9.2%.
And that is a scary place to be. On top
of that, what individuals now are
dealing with is this concern that maybe
AI is just going to take their job.
>> It's not where we want to be. That's for
sure. Futures are positive by a tenth of
1%. This market keeps grinding higher.
Equities at alltime highs. Up next, Seth
Carpenter of Morgan Stanley.
[Music]
Live from New York City. 25 seconds away
from the payrolls report. Just so used,
you know, just want to get there and
it's not happening. It's not happening.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures positive by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P and the Nasdaq up by 0.1. The
opening bow about 60 minutes from now.
You're still kind of on jobs report
watch, aren't you?
>> Yeah, I keep refreshing jobs on Truth
Social. I
>> can tell you the estimate's 53K. The
previous number was 22, but we're not
expecting one because of the government
shutdown. We'll see if we actually get
one, but not expecting one. As we count
you down to the open and bell in about
60 minutes time, let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
Here's Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. This is where the excitement
is. Maybe Apple shares declining this
morning. A downgrade from Jeffre to
underweight. They had had it on hold
before saying that there was excessive
optimism about the refresh cycle for the
new iPhones. That essentially they kept
prices as is, which is maybe why they're
generating some excitement about it, but
also that there would be lower prices in
effect in effect for the base 17 model.
And all of that is already in the price,
but just too much enthusiasm they say in
the valuation. So shares down 8/10en of
1%. Elsewhere, applied materials
continues to fall this morning. They
issued yesterday a uh a filing saying
that the Trump administration has
specifically the commerce department has
expanded their restrictions on exports
to China. They of course make the
machines that make chip makers. So those
shares down 2.3% just under that as they
expect a $600 million hit to their
fiscal 2024. Finally rounding things out
this morning with USA Rare Earths. A
CNBC report that they've been in
conversations with the Trump
administration about a potential deal.
So those shares surged 12.8% after a
string of other deals with uh Rare Earth
Mineral Producers and the Trump
administration. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. More from Danny in
about 30 minutes time alongside Matt
Miller for Bloomberg Open interest.
Counting you down to the open about 59
minutes from now. No payroll data so far
today. Not expecting any because of the
government shutdown. Joining us now to
discuss is Bloomberg's Mike McKe. Mike,
it's an odd one, isn't it? We haven't
done this for a while. I think the last
time was 2013, was it to have a delay
like this?
>> Yeah, because we got the numbers in 2019
when they were shut down. I It's kind of
weird because jobs day and you go to
Danny first. Um,
it's
>> not personal.
>> John, well, we have disappointing news
for you in terms of the jobs report. No
jobs created or lost because we don't
have any data. As you mentioned, the
government shutdown. If we had data,
it's hard to know exactly what it would
have been because the alternative data
sources that we look at have very
different views. The Bloomberg consensus
was for 53,000 jobs. Rellio suggested
we'd get 60,000. ADP suggested we'd lose
32,000.
So, uh, who knows? uh the Chicago Fed
unemployment proxy 4.3% would have
suggested no change. So if the Fed goes
with that, they'll probably be okay. And
I want to point out that all this comes
from WSL
go on the Bloomberg. That is where you
could find a huge long list of
alternative data and everybody's looking
at that these days. We do have to worry
about going forward where we go from
here because uh everybody has to have
something to trade on. The shutdown
delays the CPI report on October 15th.
Maybe uh that would not be good for the
Fed or for futures trading. And if we go
too long into October, the jobs and CPI
data collection could be imperiled
because we won't be able to collect that
data if there is nobody to collect it.
We could also see unpaid contractors
under the shutdown start widespread
layoffs. And of course, we have this
threat of Trump firing thousands more
federal workers. So the labor market you
could safely say I think is in turmoil
at this point. Danny said Apple is where
the excitement is today and so go with
that because we haven't got it in the
labor market at the moment.
>> Mike, do you think that NEC was given
the labor market report though yesterday
as they normally are?
>> No, they wouldn't be under the
circumstances uh because nobody is at
the labor department or the BLS to give
the report to the commissioner. The
commissioner gets it on Wednesday and
the government was shut down then. So it
uh would not have been transmitted over
to the White House.
>> Mike, looking forward to your
conversation in about an hour from now.
I think it's a 9:30 on Bloomberg TV with
Governor Meyer in the man of the moment
on the FOMC. Mike, what have you got in
mind for this conversation? And what
have we learned so far about how the
Fed's going to guide itself towards this
big meeting at the end of this month if
we don't have this data? Well, what
they're going to have to do is go with
their best guess and go with what they
think they have learned from talking to
CEOs and companies around the country in
terms of where we're going. Uh the
general feeling in the markets is
because there is no data, they don't
have a reason to change their view that
they were going to cut rates in October.
As for Steven Myron, we'll have to ask
if any of this changes his view,
especially the idea of a very low
neutral rate if the government can't
show us what any of the inputs to those
models are. Mike McKe, thank you, sir.
Looking forward to the conversation.
9:30 Eastern time, Michael McKe,
alongside the man of the moment on the
FOMC, Governor Steven Myron. Joining us
now to discuss, Seth Carpenter of Morgan
Stanley. Seth, this is so peculiar to
have this conversation on a day without
data. Can you describe what your
conversations have been like with
clients this week?
>> Uh, yeah, a little bit all over the
place, but uh, actually drawing off of
what Michael just said that there are,
you know, other data sources people
could look at and and he characterized
the the the numbers as being all over
the place. You know, I I agree with him
from a negative number for ADP to the
positive numbers either for the
consensus or or the alternate measure he
showed. I think though if you take all
of the numbers that were up on the
screen just a couple minutes ago, none
of them is especially strong. And so I
think the key thing we I think we do
know is that the labor market has slowed
down a lot this year. Uh there's no
sense in which it's quite strong. And so
right now I think the real key tension
intellectual tension with any of the
data that we have and that we know about
is that spending data has been holding
up. Labor market data has been quite
soft. whether it's negative as in the
ADP or very slightly positive uh by the
other measures. Uh I think the real
tension is how is it going to resolve
itself this very very soft labor market
against uh persistently resilient uh
spending data. Historically I would say
labor income tends to be a fundamental
driver of aggregate spending and so in
our forecast the this tension gets
resolved with spending coming down but
that's going to be a really key question
for markets I think over the next couple
months. Seth even trying to predict the
future. Can we talk about how this has
happened? Clearly the economy is not as
strong as it was that on the labor
market side people are anxious about
their jobs. So we can see that in the
data consumer confidence is low. They
don't think jobs are plentiful. You saw
that from the conference board early
this week. The quits rate has dropped.
That speaks to a little bit of anxiety
as well about the labor market. But
retail sales coming out of the summer
bank pop. Seth, what explains that?
Uh I think we've just seen lots of
swings back and forth uh in what's going
on in the economy, people's confidence
in the economy. Uh we know for example
that immigration restriction has had a
meaningful effect and that's reducing
both the supply of labor but you know
immigrants are also a source of demand
in the economy and so the net effect is
it more supply or demand that dominates.
That's a question for the price outcome.
Is it going to be inflationary or not?
How inflationary will it be? But in
terms of quantities, in terms of
economic activity, it's unambiguous.
That's got to be negative for overall
economic activity. So I think that's
part of the slowdown. For spending
though, we have to remember the top end
of the income distribution spends a
disproportionate amount does a
disproportionate amount of the overall
spending in the economy. And we know
that the top end of the income
distribution is actually doing quite
well. Wealth effects are higher uh among
other things. And so I think there's
definitely some momentum going on there
with the consumer, especially at the top
end. What remains to be seen is how
sustained that can be when we get more
and more time in with these tariffs.
Remember back in 2018, it took about two
quarters to three quarters before we saw
the real drag on the economy from the
tariffs. So, I think we're still in the
early innings with the drag on the
economy from the tariffs.
>> Seth, is it momentum because they have
this money to spend or is it angst
because they're worried about prices
going up because the tariffs? And I say
this coming from a family that was doing
Christmas shopping in May.
Uh, great question. And if I go back
through the database of periods of
really high inflation over the past 35
years, oh wait, we don't have a lot of
experience with this. I think it could
be some of everything and there's no
reason for us to choose one versus the
other. When there is this disconnect
though between current spending and the
trajectory of the labor market, I think
the evidence suggests we should expect
the labor income reduction to eventually
win. And so that's why we're thinking
the strength in spending is temporary,
not going to be sustained for the rest
of this year and into next year. But uh
it's a real it's a real puzzle.
>> If you don't think it's going to be able
to be sustained for the rest of this
year, what kind of Christmas sales are
we going to be looking at in holiday
spending? Are people just going to hit a
little bit of pause?
>> Uh you know, I think that's a real
possibility and we are looking for Q4 of
this year and Q1 of next year to be the
real slow points in terms of
quarteronquarter growth. Uh but you know
Christmas it brings back the same sort
of questions that you brought up. Did
people frontload Christmas shopping in
which case you'd expect weaker spending
or is it possible uh instead that uh
with people feeling anxiety they try to
make themselves feel better by having a
better uh uh uh Christmas. This is one
area where as macroeconomists, we have
much less visibility and we at Morgan
Stanley try to connect with our
colleagues in the single name equity
research space to try to get a better
read from the bottoms up from the actual
retailers themselves. So this is going
to be a question I guarantee you over
the next month or two is going to be
absolutely critical for us. Seth, just
before you go, I don't know if you saw
the note that came from Torston Sllock
of Apollo earlier this week where he
said the economics profession needs to
take a long hard look at itself in the
mirror that this economy has been much
more resilient than people thought and
betting against it ultimately has been a
fool's errand. He says later on in the
note he talks about waiting for
something that happened 6 months ago to
see the consequences of it. Do we need
to question that a little bit more,
Seth? That's what he was alluding to.
How are you thinking about this process
that you and I have discussed now for 6
months? Are we just waiting for the
consequence to something that had
happened a long time ago and we'll just
be sitting here waiting and waiting or
we actually going to start to see real
signs of it in the months to come?
>> No, it's a great question and Torson
always is very thoughtprovoking. He he
I've actually known Torsson now I
realized for 30 years. Uh I looked in
the mirror really hard and I I wanted to
look more like Jonathan Pharaoh and so
here we are. Um it's it's a great
question. Uh you know I'm an eggheheaded
academically trained economist. I try to
look at things through statistical
models in addition to lots of other
ways. You know there's the famous saying
about monetary policy working with long
and variable lags. I think all the
estimates there is it takes two or three
quarters before a monetary policy shock
hits the economy and two or three
quarters after that before it hits
inflation. We are used to as a
profession thinking about these long
lags. we don't have anywhere near as
much experience with tariffs and so
that's why we try to go back to the
evidence we have from 2018209
and the evidence there was it did take a
couple of quarters and then the effects
were very long lived manufacturing
industrial production data manufacturing
employment in the US got hit when the
tariffs were in place in 2018 we saw the
fall late in 2018 there and it continued
to contract all of 2019 so it was a very
very very long live process
That's our base case this time around.
But could we be wrong? Absolutely. We we
are trying to use all the available
information. Uh but these are very
difficult circumstances to forecast in.
>> Seth, it's good to see you. And just for
the record, you wear it so much better
than I do. Seth Carpenter of Vulcan
Stanley. Seth, thank you. Good to see
you, buddy. As always, let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. A senior Hamas
official says the group will respond to
President Donald Trump's plan to end the
war in Gaza, quote, very soon. The
official said Hamas rejects a take it or
leave it approach to the proposal. He
added the group will not accept the
surrender of the rights of the
Palestinian people after all their
sacrifices.
Bridgewater Associates flagship macro
fund surged 26% in the first nine months
of this year. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that the hedge fund is on
track for its biggest gain since 2010.
Overall, hedge funds have seen strong
gains this year, driven by surging US
share prices and volatility spurred by
President Trump's tariffs.
A Rolex worn almost a century ago by the
first British woman to swim the English
Channel will be up for sale. Mercedes
Betska's Rolex Oyster is considered to
be the world's first practical
waterproof wristwatch. The watch could
fetch over $1.3 million at Sabby's
auction in Geneva November 9th. That is
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Up next on the
program, we'll set you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll touch base with Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
We've been in this low higher low fire
labor market. I wouldn't just say
because historically it hasn't mattered.
If it starts to actually there are
layoffs here. I think we have to start
thinking that the labor market's much
weaker. We're already a little fragile.
>> That was Pri Misra of JP Morgan just as
equities turn flat and unchanged on the
session so far. Just about going
nowhere. Likewise on the NASDAQ 100, the
Russell 2000 just about positive by
0.2%.
As we count you down to the opening
bell, it's about 43 minutes away. Your
trading diary into the weekend and a
sneak peek of next week looks like this.
at 9:45 Eastern time. The PMIs 15
minutes later, ISM services, that's the
big data point really now going into the
weekend. But then you've got a Senate
vote at 1:30 Eastern time. The
government still shut down, likely to be
shut down going into the weekend and
coming out the other end next week. Next
week, we're looking for the following. I
don't know what we will get and won't
get, but the trade balance is due on
Tuesday. Wednesday, Fed meeting minutes.
Thursday, Delta earnings. Plus, we are
due for another round of jobless claims.
down on Friday. You consumer sentiment
into the weekend and sentiment has been
soft.
>> Sentiment has been soft. I think the
only thing really there that's most
interesting to look forward to for
likely going to be in this shutdown is
the earnings. What is a company like
Delta saying in terms of where they are
with consumers? We know that the
high-end consumers, the business class,
they continue to spend. But also, are
they seeing issues with the government
shutdown? Is the FAA having issues in
terms of whether or not these airlines
are delayed and and how that's working
around the country? So I think that's
going to be actually the most
interesting data point
>> based on the economic data so far not
great but based on what we've heard from
the airlines things are pretty
tremendous arguably because of what's
happening with the upper income
consumer. We heard from United Delta
anyone that Brammo speaks to in the
airline space at the moment is basically
telling her things are pretty good at
the high end.
>> They're pretty good because of the high
end and the high-end is basically
lifting all boats when it comes to the
airlines. The issue is the airlines that
are catering to some of the lower-end
cohort not doing as well. But the Delta,
the American Airlines, JetBlue, they're
pretty doomed.
>> Let's get you to the opening bell. Let's
turn back to markets. So, the S&P 500 is
looking for a sixth consecutive day of
gains. It's on a five-day winning run,
the longest streak going back to late
July. Jeff Rosenberg of Black Rockck has
this to say. We believe the current
market backdrop m the high level of
dispersion embedded within the economy
today. Jeff joins us now for more. Jeff,
welcome to the program, sir. No
payrolls. Going to have to get knee deep
in all the other stuff. Jeff, I think
that what you just said in that quote
>> kind of builds on what we were
discussing with regards to the airlines.
How much dispersion are you seeing?
>> Yeah, this is really about the
difference between what you're seeing on
the on the on the top line and the
headline and what's going on underneath.
And we we've talked about it a lot. Uh
you know, when we do have payrolls or
when we do have FOMC meetings, when
Tom's with us, we talk a lot about the
K-shaped recovery, about the differences
between something you were just talking
about, the top end and the bottom end.
And you see that both for consumers but
also within businesses. You have the
winners uh and you have the bottom end
that is struggling. And that is the
recipe for dispersion. And so when you
take away kind of the big headline that
we might have been talking about today,
which is this is good for the economy,
bad for the economy, as stocks going up,
stocks going down, you go underneath the
surface and there's a tremendous amount
of churn going on underneath. And that
when you take away kind of beta
investing and you focus on alpha
investing has created a tremendous
amount of opportunity uh and you see
that in some of the returns that look at
say factor returns uh stripping out uh
kind of directionality in the markets.
>> When you joined us in July you were
talking about a tricky environment ahead
for the Fed. How tricky is it now that
they might miss an entire month of data?
>> Yeah. So if we shift back to kind of the
data problem, um it it's it is it's
tricky for the Fed, it's tricky for us
in investors. You know, I was going to
suggest that uh you know, if we wanted
to look at and maybe your producers can
can do this quickly, the one area that
might be benefiting from this lack of
data is interest rate uncertainty. So
maybe put up a chart of the the move
index, which has collapsed here. But you
look at kind of what we've been talking
about this morning around the lack of
data and you have a lot of disagreement.
The good news is you've got a lot of
alternative data. But kind of the bad
news is none of us can agree as to what
that alternative data means. Good
example is I saw this morning two
different estimates from alternative
data. One using state filings, the other
looking at extrapolating initial claims
forecasts off of challenger layoffs.
They came up with completely different
uh conclusions. Another example on the
earlier segment you were talking to uh
manpower talking about switchers and the
lack of switching but you look at the
Atlanta Fed wage data and you know
switching wages actually went up a
little bit. So in the cafe I think the
the benefit might acrue to uncertainty
although that doesn't make the Fed's job
any easier.
>> Well if you had to decide what your top
three data points were what are what
would they be?
uh you know, when we're talking about
the payroll data and the lack of payroll
data, you know, I I I I turn to the to
the wage data and and looking at
inferences from that. We have the
Atlanta Fed wage data. Um we we have a
lot of private sources in terms of uh
what you can scrape. I'd like that
alternative data. We've used that a lot
in terms of both frequency and and
turning points. So that that would be,
you know, kind of data point number one,
I think. And Jonathan, you made
reference to this earlier about the
inflation data and you know whether
we're going to start to lose some of
that. I think the good news there is is
that with the web scrape data, we have a
lot of uh you know kind of consistency
around what people are looking at in
terms of alternative forms of data.
People talk about the price stats data.
I think that's a that's a a good form.
And then I think the pivot to the
private data that you mentioned um where
we we hope we'll continue to get that
the survey data the PMIs they take on a
heightened you know importance in this
environment of the lack of the
government data we have to caveat that
with the notion that that the kind of
accuracy that we've seen from the survey
data the PMI data in terms of its
importance for this kind of economy
that's that's really kind of gone down
and we've seen a a decrease in the
correlation between the PMI data and and
say the industrial production data in
this cycle. So that that's sort of a
caveat to that third data point.
>> Jeeoff, we've talked about five, six,
seven minutes about economic data. If id
given you the payrolls data at the start
of the year for the next 9 months, I
think you would have traded this market
in completely the wrong way. So I just
wonder Jeff, what is the relevant data
point right now? Because clearly some
data is more important than others.
Yeah, that's that's absolutely uh you
know it's absolutely the case and and
and it's you know the classical sort of
break between kind of growth and
inflation uh and the pivot as to which
one has the focus of the market and you
know going into before we had the the
shutdown. You know, the other
conversation would have been that this
is the pivot away from the inflation
concerns towards the growth concerns and
that the kind of, you know, uh, top tier
data point on payrolls is giving us that
read on the growth and the Fed's pivot
towards a focus more on the growth and
less on the inflation. And I think
that's kind of the read here. In
contrast to the beginning of the year
where the focus was on inflation, the
impact on tariffs and tariff pass
through, we really shifted that focus.
And I think that's really the driver
behind the directionality here in
interest rates. Really the fear and the
concerns to your earlier conversation
with Seth Carpenter around, you know, is
there this lagged slowdown, the lagged
effect. Remember the tariff impact that
Seth's talking about is not about the
inflation piece, but it's on the real
wage piece that the temporary even if it
is temporary impact in terms of in terms
of the inflation from tariffs, its
impact is on real wage growth. And
that's really about the growth side and
that's what's driving the rates markets
right now.
>> Jeff, love catching up with you. It's
just a bit odd without payroll data,
isn't it? It's kind of strange.
>> It it is odd. Hopefully we'll get that
back soon.
>> And when we get it back, we'll get you
back, sir. Jeff Rosenberg there of Black
Rockck. Jeff mentioned the move index.
Bond market volatility getting
absolutely crushed. He's trying to
produce the show now. The control room
can respond. Here's the chart. This is
what it looks like. It really has
grinded lower as this year has
progressed. That's been a steep, steep
drop off ever since the April 2nd
Liberation Day story. I cannot believe
it's been 6 months since then. I've said
that a few times this week. That has
been a blur. Think about the summer.
July, August, September just zipped by.
>> Yeah, absolutely. This this year has
been like 10 decades in one year. And
the year is not even over yet. And now
we're dealing with a fresh amount of
uncertainty in terms of are we going to
have a government that is up operational
working? Will we be able to get to your
flights on time? Will our men in service
women get paid? These are a lot of
questions going into the weekend. 130 is
going to be interesting. Any Democrats,
moderate Democrats, start to flip and
vote with the Republicans to just keep
the government open.
>> Has there been enough pay generated to
tip them over the edge, over the line?
>> Not yet, but I think next week there
will be. You have to watch the senators
in Virginia and Maryland. This is where
the furlows are coming from. All eight
of them, four of them are Democrats. So,
they have an opportunity there to push
this over the edge.
>> When's the next game?
>> Saturday.
>> Blue Jays. Let's go. All right.
>> Cheers.
>> Long weekend for you then, right? We'll
see you Tuesday.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay. Good for you. All right. Coming up
on Monday, we'll be here. Andrew Sheets
of Morgan Stanley will be too. Paul
Donovan of UBS. Amanda Lam of Black
Rock. Lindseay Pza of Steveall from New
York City. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. Have a wonderful weekend.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]